29页

So what makes the brain so unlike the programming  that  goes into  AI  and  neural 
 
networks? What is so unusual about the brain's design,  and  why does it matter? As 

we'll see in the next few chapters, the brain's architecture has a great deal to tell 
						结构
us about how the brain really works and why it is fundamentally different from a 
							根本上的
computer



Let's begin our introduction with the whole organ. Imagine there is a brain sitting 

on a table and we are dissecting it together. The first thing you'll notice is that the 
			仔细分析
outer surface of the brain seems highly  uniform. A pinkish gray, it resembles a 
						   略带桃色的 灰色   类似
smooth cauliflower with numerous ridges and valleys called gyri  and sulci. It is soft 
	花菜			  皱纹			   脑回		脑沟
and squishy to the touch. This is the neocortex, a thin sheet of neural tissue that 
	粘糊糊的
envelops most of the  older  parts of the brain. We are  going to  focus most of our 

attention on the neocortex.  Almost everything we think  of as intelligence―  

perception, language, imagination, mathematics, art, music, and planning― occurs 
知觉
here. Your  neocortex is reading this book. 




Now, here I have to  admit I am  a neocortical chauvinist. I know I'm going to  meet  

some resistance on  this point,  s o  let  me take a minute to  defend  my  approach 

before we get too far in. Every part o f  the brain has its own community of  

scientists who study it, and the suggestion that  we can get to the bottom of 

intelligence  by understanding just the neocortex is sure to raise a few howls of 
				只有						怒号
objection from communities of offended  researchers.  They will say things like, 
反对				不服气的
"You cannot possibly understand the neocortex without understanding brain region  

blah, because the two are highly interconnected like so, and you need brain region 
废话					相互联系的
blah  to do such and such." I   don't disagree. Granted, the brain consists of  many 
 						但是
parts and most of them are critical to  being human . (Oddly , an exception is the 
				决定性的			古怪的
part of the brain with the largest number  of cells, the cerebellum. If you are  born
 								小脑
without a cerebellum or it is damaged, you can lead a pretty normal life. However,
  
this is not true for most other brain regions; most are required for basic living, or 

sentience.)
知觉



My counterargument is that I am not interested in building humans. I want to 

understand intelligence and build  intelligent machines . Being human and being 

intelligent are separate matters. An intelligent machine need not have sexual 

urges, hunger, a pulse, muscles, emotions, or a human like  body. A human is much 

more than an intelligent machine. We are biological creatures with all the 

necessary and sometimes unwanted baggage that comes from eons of evolution. 

If you want to build intelligent machines that behave just like humans― that is, to 

pass the Turing Test in all ways― then you probably would have to re-create much 

of the other stuff that makes humans what  we are. But as we will see later, to

build machines that are undoubtedly intelligent but not exactly like humans, we

can focus on the part  of the brain strictly related to  int elligence. 
					紧密相关的

30页


Stretched flat, the human neocortical sheet  is roughly the size of  a large dinner 
拉平后
napkin. The cortical sheets of other mammals  are smaller: the rat's is the size of a  
；餐巾纸	皮质层
postage stamp; the monkey's  is about the size of a business-letter envelope. But 

regardless of size, most of them contain six layers similar to what you see in your 
						图层
stack of business cards. Humans are smarter because our cortex, relative to body 

size, covers a larger area, not because  our layers are thicker or contain some 

special class of "smart" cells. Its size  is quite impressive as it surrounds and 

envelops most of the rest of the brain.  To accommodate our large brain, nature  
						容纳
had to modify our general anatomy. Human females developed a wide pelvis to 
			  骨骼
give birth to  big-headed children, a feature that some paleoanthropologists believe 
								人类学家
coevolved with the ability to walk on two legs. But that still wasn't enough, so 
共同进化
evolution folded up the neocortex, stuffing it into our  skulls like a sheet of paper 
					填料
crumpled into  a brandy snifter. 
弄皱


Your neocortex is loaded with nerve cells,  or neurons .   They are so tightly  packed 

that no one knows precisely how many cells it contains. If  you draw a tiny square, 

one millimeter on a side (about half the size of this letter  o ), on the top of your 

stack of business cards, you are marking the position of an estimated one hundred 
								估计的
thousand (100,000) neurons.  Imagine trying to count the exact number in such a 

tiny space; it is virtually impossible. Nevertheless, some anatomists have estimated 
								解刨学家
that the typical human neocortex contains around thirty billion neurons 

(30,000,000,000),  but  no one would be surprised if the figure  was significantly 

higher or lower. 

31页

Those thirty billions  cells  are you. They  contain almost all your memories, 

knowledge, skills , and accumulated life  experience. After twenty-five years of  

thinking about brains,  I still find this  fact astounding. That a thin sheet of cells 
 
sees, feels, and creates our worldview is just short of incredible. The warmth of a  
				世界观					
summer day and the dreams we have for  a better world are somehow the creation 

of these cells. Many years after he wrote his article in  Scientific American,  Francis 

Crick wrote a book  about brains called  The Astonishing Hypothesis. The 

astonishing hypothesis was simply that the  mind is the creation of the cells in the 

brain. There is nothing else, no magic, no  special sauce, only  neurons and a dance 

of information. I hope you  can get a sense of how incredible this realization is. 
									实现的
There appears to be a large philosophical  gulf between a collection of cells and our 
				哲学		分歧
conscious experience, yet mind  and brain  are one and the same. In calling this a  

hypothesis, Crick was being politically correct. That the cells in our brains create 
假设
the mind is a fact, not a  hypothesis. We need to understand what these thirty 

billion cells do and how they do it. Fortunately, the cortex is not just an amorphous 
										无组织的
blob  of  cells.  We can  take a  deeper  look at its structure for ideas about how it 
一团
gives rise to the human mind. 


Let's go back to our dissection table and look at the brain some more. To the 
			解剖
naked eye, the neocortex presents almost  no landmarks. There are a few, to be  
裸体的						地标
sure, such as the giant fissures eparating the two cerebral hemispheres and the 
			裂痕	分离			
prominent sulcus that divides the back  and fron t regions.  But just abou t 

ev er y wh er e y o u  l oo k, f r o m  l ef t  t o  r i g ht ,  f rom back to front, the convoluted surface 

looks pretty much the same. There are no  visible boundary lines or color codes 

demarcating areas that specialize  in different sensory information or different types 
	区别					感觉
of thought.  


People have long known there are boundaries in there somewhere, though. Even 
					分界线
before neuroscientists were able to discern anything helpful about the circuitry of 

the cortex, they knew that some mental functions were localized to certain regions 

of it.  If a stroke knocks out Joe's right  parietal lobe, he can  lose his ability to 

perceive― or even conceive of ― a n y th in g o n  t h e l ef t s id e o f h i s b o d y o r i n t h e l ef t 
 
half of space around himself. A stroke in the left frontal region known as Broca's 

area, by contrast, compromises his ability to use the rules of  grammar, although 

his vocabulary and his  ability  to understand the meanings of words are unchanged.
 
A stroke in an area called the fusiformgyrus can knock out the ability to  recognize 
 
faces― Joe can't recognize his mother, his children, or even his own face in a 

photograph. Deeply fascinating disorders like these gave  early neuroscientists the 
				混乱
notion that the cortex consists of many functional  regions or functional areas.  The 

terms are equivalent. 

We have learned a lot about functional  areas in the past century,  but much

remains to be discovered. Each of these regions is semi-independent and seems to
							半独立的
be specialized for certain aspects of perception or thought .  Physically they  are 

arranged in an irregular patchwork quilt, which varies only a little from person to 
						不同的
person. Rarely are the functions cleanly delineated. Functionally they are arranged 
						描画的
in  a branching hierarchy .  
	分支的		层级


32页


The notion of a hierarchy is critical, so I want to take a moment to carefully define 
	概念			被批评的
it. I'll be referring to it throughout t he book. In a hierarchical system, some 

elements are in an abstract sense "above" and "below" others. In a business 

hierarchy, for example,  a mid-level manager is above a mail clerk and below the  

vice president. This has nothing  to do with physical aboveness or belowness; even 

if she works on a lower floor than  the mail clerk, the manager is still "above" him 

hierarchically. I emphasize this point  to  make clear what I mean whenever I talk 

about one functional  region being higher or lower than  another .It has nothing to 

do with their physical arrangement in the brain. All the functional areas of the  

cortex reside in the same convoluted cortical sheet. What makes one region 
	属于			复杂的  皮质
"higher" or "lower" than another is how they are connected to one another. In the 

cortex, lower areas feed information up to  higher areas by way of  a certain neural 

pattern of connectivity, while higher areas send feedback down to lower areas 

using a different connection pattern. There are also lateral connections between  
							侧面的
areas that are in separate branches of the hierarchy, like one mid-level manager 

communicating with  her counterpart in a sister office in another state. A detailed 
				副本
map of the  monkey  cortex has been worked out by two scientists, Daniel Felleman 

and David van Essen. The map shows dozens  of regions connected together in a 

complex hierarchy. We can assume the  human cortex has a  similar hierarchy. 


The lowest of the functional regions, the primary sensory  areas, are where sensory 
							感觉
information first arrives in  the cortex. These regions process the information at its 

rawest, most basic level. For example, visual information enters the cortex through 
未加工
the primary visual area, called V1 for short. V1 is concerned with low-level visual 
							有关的
features such as tiny edge-segments, small-scale components of  motion, binocular 
・・・・・		边缘分割	小比例    部件		动作		双眼
disparity (for stereo-vision), and basic color and contrast information. V1 feeds 
不一致		立体视觉				对比
information up to other areas,  s u ch  as V2,  V4,  and  I T  ( we'l l  have more to  say 

about them later), and to a bunch of other areas besides. Each of these areas is 

concerned with more specialized or abstract aspects of the information .  For  

example, cells in V4 respond to objects of  medium complexity such as star shapes 

in different colors like red or blue. A nother area called MT specializes in the 
								专门从事
motions of objects. In the  higher echelons of the visual cortex are areas that 
动作					层次
represent your visual memories of all sorts of objects like faces, animals, tools, 
描绘，回忆
body parts,  and so on . 

Your other senses have similar hierarchies. Your cortex has a primary auditory area 

called A1 and a hierarchy of auditory  regions above  it, and it has a primary 

somatosensory (body sense)  area called  S1 and a  hierarchy  of somatosensory 

regions above that. Eventually, sensory information passes into "association 
									相连
areas," which is the name sometimes used  for the regions of the cortex that 

receive inputs from more than one sense. For example, your cortex has areas that
 
receive input from both vision and touch. It is thanks to association regions that 

you are able to be aware that the sight of a fly crawling  up  your arm and the 

		tickling sensation you feel  there share the same cause.  Most of these areas receive
 自旋挠痒法；反馈		感觉
highly processed input from several senses, and their functions  remain unclear. I 
 
will have much to  say about  the cortical hierarchy later  in the book.


33页

There is yet another set of areas in the frontal lobes of the brain that creates 
					前额叶
motor output. The motor system of the cortex is also hierarchically organized. The 
			运动系统
lowest area, M1, sends connections to the  spinal cord and directly drives muscles.
 					   脊椎    线				
Higher areas feed sophisticated motor commands to  M1. The hierarchy  of the  

motor area and the hierarchies of sensory areas look  remarkably similar. They 

seem to be put together in the same way. In the motor region we think of 

information flowing down the hierarchy toward M1 to drive the muscles and in the 

sensory regions we think of  information flowing up the hierarchy away from the 

senses. But in reality information flows both  ways. What is referred to as feedback 

in sensory regions is the output of the motor region, and vice versa.
							   

Most descriptions of brains are based on  flowcharts that reflect an  oversimplified  
						l流程图			使简单化
view of hierarchies. That is, input (sights, sounds, to uch) flows  into the primary 
 
sensory areas and gets processed as it moves up the hierarchy, then gets passed  

through the association areas, then gets  passed to the frontal lobes of the cortex, 

and finally gets passed back down to the motor areas. I'm not saying this view is 

co m p l et el y wr o n g .  Wh en  y ou  r ea d  a l ou d,   visual infor m ation does indeed enter at 

V1, flows up to association areas ,  makes  its way over to the frontal motor cortex, 

and winds up making the muscles in your mouth and  throat form  the sounds of  

speech. However, that isn't all there is to  i t .  I t 's j u st  no t  t ha t  si m p l e.   I n  t h e 

oversimplified view I am cautioning against, the process is generally treated as 

though information flows in a  single direction, like widgets being built on  a factory 

assembly line. But information in the cortex  always flows in the opposite direction 

as well ,  and  with  many  more projections  feeding back down the hierarchy than up. 

As you read aloud, higher regions of your cortex send more signal s "d o wn " to your 

primary visual cortex than your eye receives from the printed page! We'll get to  

what those feedback projections are doing in later chapters. For now, I want to 

impress upon you one fact: although the up hierarchy is real, we have to be 

careful  not to  think  that the information flow is all  one way. 



Back at the dissection table, let's assume we set up a powerful microscope, cut a 

thin slice from the cortical  sheet, stain some of the cells, and take a look at our  
					给着色
handiwork through the eyepiece. If we stained all the cells in our slice, we'd see a 

solid black mass because the cells are so tightly packed and intermingled. But if we 

use a stain that marks a smaller fraction of cells, we can see the six layers I  

mentioned. These layers are formed by variations in the  density of cell bodies, cell 
					变种			密度
types, and their connections. 


34页

All neurons have features in common.  Apart from a cell body, which is the 

roundish part you imagine when  you think  of a cell, they  also have branching,
 圆的
wirelike structures called axons and dendrites. When the axon from one neuron 

touches the dendrite of an other, they form small connections called synapses. 

Synapses are where the nerve impulse from  one cell influences the behavior of 

another cell. A neural signal,  or spike, arriving at a synapse can make it more likely 

for the recipient cell to spike. Some synapses have the opposite effect, making it 
	接受者		兴奋
less likely the recipient cell will spike.  Thus synapses can be inhibitory or 

excitatory. The strength of a  synapse can change depending on the behavior of 

the two cells. The simplest form of this  synaptic change is that when two neurons 

generate a  spike  at nearly the same time, the connection strength between the 

two neurons will be increased. I will say more about this process, called Hebbian 

learning, a  bit later.  In addition to changing the strength of  a synapse, there is
 
evidence that entirely new synapses can be formed between two neurons. This 

may be happening all the time, although  the scientific evidence is controversial.
 
Regardless of the details of how synapses change their strength, what is certain is 

that the formation and strengthening of  synapses is what causes memories to be 

stored.

While there are many types of neurons in the neocortex, one broad class of them 

comprises eight out of every ten cells. These are the pyramidal neurons, so called 
							角锥状
because their cell bodies are shaped roughly like pyramids. Except for the top layer 

of the six-layered cortex, which has miles of axons but very few cells, every layer 

contains pyramidal cells. Each pyramidal neuron connects to many  other neurons 

in its immediate neighborhood, and each  sends a lengthy axon laterally out to 
				每一个	发出	 漫长的  轴突	旁边的
more distant regions  of cortex or down to  lower brain structures like the thalamus.
向更远的区域



A typical pyramidal cell has several thousand synapses. Again, it is very difficult to 

know exactly how many because of their extreme density and small size. The 

number of synapses varies from cell to cell, layer to layer, and region to region. If 

we were to take the conservative position that the average pyramidal cell has one 

thousand synapses (the actual number is probably close to five or ten thousand), 

then our neocortex would have roughly thirty trillion synapses altogether. That is  

an astronomically large number, well beyond our intuitive grasp. It is apparently 

sufficient to store all the things  you can learn in  a  lifetime. 


35页

A cco r d i ng  t o  rumor,  Albert  Einstein  once said that  conceiving  the theory  o f  special  
								构想
relativity was straightforward, almost easy. It followed naturally from a single 

observation: that the speed of light is  constant to all observers even if the 

observers are moving at different speeds. This is counterintuitive. It is like saying 
							反只觉得
the speed of a thrown ball is  always the same regardless of how hard it is  thrown 

or how fast the individuals throwing and observing the ball are moving. Everybody 

sees the ball moving at the same speed relative to them under all circumstances. 

It doesn't seem like it could be true. But it  was proven to be true for light, and 

Einstein cleverly asked what the consequences of this bizarre fact were. He 

methodically thought about all the implications of  a  c o n st a n t  s p eed  o f  l ig h t,  a nd  h e 

was led to the even more bizarre predictions of special relativity, such as time 

slowing down as you move faster, and  energy and mass being fundamentally the 

same thing. Books on relativity walk through his line of reasoning with everyday  

examples of trains, bullets, flash-lights, and  so forth. The theory isn't hard, but it is 

definitely counterintuitive.  



There is an analogous discovery in neuroscience― a fact about the cortex that is 
		类似的
so surprising that some neuroscientists refuse to believe it and most of the rest  

ignore it  because they  don 't  know wh a t  t o  make of it .  But  it  is a f a ct  of  such  

importance that if you carefully and methodically explore its implications, it  will 

unravel the secrets of what the neocortex  does and how it works. In  this case,  the 
解决
surprising discovery came from the basic anatomy of the  cortex itself, but it took 

an unusually  insightful  mind to  recognize it. That person was Vernon Mountcastle, 

a neuroscientist at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. In 1978 he published a 

paper titled  "An Organizing Principle for Cerebral Function ." In this paper, 

Mountcastle points out that the neocortex is remarkably uniform in appearance  

and structure. The regions of co r t ex  t h a t handle auditory input look like the 

regions that  handle touch, which look  like the regions that control muscles, which 

look like Broca's language area, which look like practically every other region of the  
		
cortex. Mountcastle suggests that since these regions all look the same, perhaps 

they are actually performing the same basic operation! He proposes that the cortex  

uses the same computational tool to accomplish  everything it does. 



All anatomists at that time, and for decades prior to Mountcastle , recognized  that 
	解剖学家
the cortex looks similar everywhere; this is undeniable. But instead of asking what 

that could mean, they  spent their time looking for the differences between one 

area of cortex and another. And they did find  differences. They assumed that if 

one region is used for language  and another for vision, then there ought to be 

differences between those regions. If you look closely enough you find them. 

Regions of cortex vary in thickness, cell density, relative  proportion of cell types, 

length  of horizontal connections, synapse density, and  many other ways that can 

be tricky to discover. One of the most-studied regions, the primary visual area V1, 

actually has a few extra divisions in one of its layers. The situation is analogous to 
			分割
the work of biologists in the 1800s. They  spent their time discovering the minute 

differences between species. Success for them was finding that two mice that 

looked nearly identical were actually  separate species. For many years Darwin 

followed the same course, often studying  mollusks. Bu t Darwin eventually had the 

big insight to ask how  all these species could be  so similar. It is their similarity that 

is surprising and interesting, much more so than their differences. 

	
36页
Mountcastle makes a similar observation.  In a field of anatomists looking for 

minute differences in cortical regions, he shows that despite the differences, the 

neocortex is remarkably uniform. The same layers, cell types, and connections  

exist throughout. It looks like the six business cards everywhere. The differences 

are often so subtle that  trained anatomists can't agree on them. Therefore, 

Mountcastle argues, all regions of the cortex are performing the same operation. 

The thing that makes the vision area visual and the  motor  area motoric is how the  

regions of cortex are connected to each other and to other parts of the central 

nervous system. 


In fact, Mountcastle argues that the reason  one region of cortex looks slightly

different  from another is because of what it is connected to, and not because its

basic function is different. He concludes that there  is a common function, a

commonal gorithm, t h at is performed by all the cortical regions. Vision is no

different  from hearing, which is no different  from m o tor out p ut . He  allows t h at  our

genes specify how the regions of cortex are connected, which is very specific to

function and species, but the cortical tissue itself is doing the same thing

everywhere. 


Let's think about this for  a m o ment. To  me , sig h t, hearing,  and touch seem very 

different . They have fundame n ta lly different   qualities. Sight involves color, texture,  

shape, depth, and form. Hearing has pitch, rhythm, and timbre. They feel very 

different . H o w can they  be the sa me? Mountcastle says they aren't  the same, but  

the way the cortex processes  signals from the ear is the same as the way it 

processes signals from the eyes. He goes on to say that motor control works on 

the same principle, too. 



Scientists and engineers have for the most  part beenig norant of, or have chosen 

to ignore, Mountcastl e's proposal. When they try to understand vision or make a 
			
computer that can "see," they devise vocabulary and techniques specific to vision. 

They talk about edges, textures, and three-dimensional representations . If they 

want to understand spoken language, they build algorithms based on rules of 

grammar, syntax, and semantics. But if  Mountcastle is correct, these approaches 

are not how the brain solves these problems , and are therefore likely to fail. If 

Mountcastle is correct, the  algorithm of the cortex must  be expressed 

independently of any particular function or sense. The brain uses the same process 

to see as to  hear. The cortex does something universal that can be applied to any 

type of sensory or motor system. 



When I first read Mountcastle's paper I nea rl y  fell out  o f  my c h a ir .  Here was the 

Rosetta stone of neuroscience― a single paper and a single  idea t h at united all the 

diverse and wondrous capabilities of the human  mind. It united them under a

single algorithm. In one step it exposed the fallacy of all previous attempts to

understand  and en gi neer human behavior as diverse capabilities. I hope yo u can

appreciate how radical and wonderfully elegant Mountc astle's proposal is. The best

ideas in science are always simple, elegant,  and unexpected, and this is one of the

best. In m y  opinion it  was, is, and will li kely remain the most important dis covery

in neuroscience. Incredibly,  though, most s cientists and engineers either refuse to

believe it, choose to  ignore  it, or aren't aware of it. 

37页


Part of this neglect stems from a poverty of tools for studying how information 
		忽略  起源于		缺少
flows within the six-layered cortex. The  tools we do have operate on a grosser 
						已经拥有的工具
level and are generally aimed at locating where in the cortex, as opposed to when 
								   相反的
and how, various capabilities arise. Fo r example, much of  the neuroscience  

reported in the popular press these days implicitly favors the idea of the brain as a 

collection of highly specialized modules. Functional  imaging techniques like 
一个高度分化的集合				功能成像技术
functional  MRI and PET scanning focusal most exclusively on brain maps and the 
						惟一的，专有的
functional regions I mentioned earlier. Typically in these experiments, a volunteer 
					代表性的
subject lies down with his or her head inside the scanner and performs some kind 
							扫描仪
of mental  or motor task. It m ight be  playing a video game , generating verb 
								生成
conjugations, reading sentences, looking  at faces, naming pictures, imagining 
结合
something, memorizing lists, making financial decisions, and so on. The scanner 

detects which brain regions are more acti ve than usual during these tasks and 
探测
draws colored splotches over an image of the subject's brain to pinpoint them. 
		污点
These regions are presumably central to the  task. Thousands of functional imaging 

experiments have been done and thousands more will follow. Through the course 

of it all, we are gradually  building up a picture of w h ere certain functi ons happen 

in the typical adult brain. It is easy  to say, "this is the face recognition area , t h is is 

the math area, this is  the music area," and so on. Since we don't know how the 

brain accomplishes these tasks,  it is natural to assume  that the brain carries out 

the various activit i es in  different ways. 



But does it? A growing and fascinating body  of evidence supports Mountcastle's 

proposal. Some of the best examples demonstrate the extreme flexibility of the 

neocortex. Any human brain, if nourished properly and put in  the right 
				滋养		适当的
environment, can learn any of thousands  of spoken languages. That same brain 

can also learn sign language, written language, m u si cal lang uage, mathe matical 

lang uage, computer languages, and body language. It can learn to live in frigid 

northern climes or in a scorching desert. It can become an  expert in chess, fishing, 

farming, or theoretical physics. Consider  th e fact that you have a special visual 

area that seems to be specifically devoted to representing  written letters and 
					献身于
digits. Does this mean you were born with  a language area ready to process letters 

and digits? Unlikely . Written  la nguage is far too recent  an invention for our  genes 

to have evolved a specific mechanism for it.  So the cortex is still dividing itself into 
				机制
task-specific functional areas long into childhood, based purely on experience. The 
							仅仅
human  brain has an incredible capacity  to learn and adapt to thousands of 
			
environments that didn't exist until very  recently. This argues for an extremely 

flexible sys t em, not one with a thousand solutions  for a thousand problems.  


38页

Neuroscientists have also found that the wiring of the neocortex is amazingly 

"plastic," meaning it can change and rewire  itself dependin g on  t h e type of inputs 
可塑的
flowing into  it. For ex ample, new born ferret brains can be surgically rewired so 

that the animals' eyes send their signals to the areas of cortex where hearing 

normally develops. The surprising result  is that the ferrets develop functioning 
								形成视觉功能的路线
visual pathways in the auditory  portions of their brains. In other words, they see 
	路线			部分
with brain tissue that normally hears sounds. Similar experiments  have been done 

with other senses and brain regions. For instance, pieces of rat visual cortex can 
								视觉
be transplanted around the time of birth to regions where the sense of touch is 
			在刚出生的时间					触觉
usually represented. As the rat matures, the transplanted tissue processes touch 
		表示		成熟
rather than vision. Cells were  not born to specialize in vision or touch or  hearing. 




Human neocortex is every bit as plastic. Adults who are born deaf process visual 

information in areas that normally become  auditory regions. And congenitally  bli n d 
									天生的
adults  use the rearmost portion of  their  cortex, which ordinarily  be omes dedicated 
		后面的	  部分
to vision, to  read braille.  Since braille involves touch,  you might think it would 

primarily activate touch regions― but apparently no  area of cortex is content to 

represent nothing. The visual cortex, not receiving information from the eyes like it 

is "supposed" to,  casts around  for other  input patterns to sift through― in this 
								删选
case, from other cortical regions.



All this goes to show that brain regions  develop specialized functions based largely 

on the kind of information th at flows into  them during development. The cortex is 

not rigidly designed to  perform different   functions using diff erent algorithms any 

more than the earth's surface was predestined to end up  with its modern  

arrangement of nations. The organization of your cortex, like the political 

geography  of the globe, could have turned out differently given  a different set of 

early circumstances. 


Mountcastle was right. There is a single powerful algorithm implemented by  every 

region of cortex. I f  y ou connect  regions  of  cortex toge ther in  a suitable hierarchy 

and provide a stream of inpu t,  it  will learn about its enviro nment .  Therefore, there 

is no reason for  intelligent machines of  the future to have  the same senses or  

capabili ties as we humans. T h e cortical algorith m can be deployed i n  novel ways, 
								展开，部署
with novel senses, in a machined cortical sheet so  that genuine, flexible 

intelligence emerges outside of  biological brains.
		摆脱

39页


Let 's mo v e o n  t o  a  t o p i c t h a t  i s r el a t ed  t o Mo u n t ca stl e's p r o p o sa l  a n d  i s e q u a ll y  

surprising. The inputs  to yo ur c o rtex are all basically alike. Again, you pr obably 
			所有输入都是相似的
think of your senses as bein g completely separate entities. After all, sound is 
					    不同	实体
carried as compression waves through air,  vision is carried as light, and touch is 

carried as pressure on your skin. Sound seems temporal, vision seems mainly 

pictorial, and touch s eems essentially spatial. What c o ul d be more different than  

the sound of a bleating goat  versus the sight of an  apple versus the feel of a 
		叫着的山羊					
baseball? 



But let's take a closer look. Visual information from the outside world is sent to 

your brain via a million fibers in your optic nerve.  Afte r a brief transit thr o ugh the 
				纤维	视觉
thalamus, they arrive  at the primary visual cortex. Sounds are carried in  via the 

thirty thousand fibers of your  auditory  nerve. They  pass through some older parts  

of y o ur brain and then arrive at  your primary auditory cortex . Your  spinal cord  
										脊髓
carries information about touch and internal sensations to your brain via another 

million fibers. They are received by your primary somatosensory cortex. Thes e are 
							躯体感觉皮质
th e main  inp u ts to  y our b r ain.  They are how you sense the world. 


You can visualize these inputs as  a bundle of  electrical wires or a bundle of optical 

fibers. You might have seen lamps made with optical fibers where pinpoints of 
						光学
colored light appear at the end of each fiber. The inputs to the brain are like this, 

but the fi bers are called axons, and they carry neural signals called "action 
									
potentials" or "spikes," which ar e partly  chemical and partly electrical. The sense 
电
organs supplying these signals are differen t, but once they ar e turned into brain-

bound acti on potentials, t h ey are all the same― just patterns.



If you look at a dog, for example, a set of patterns will flow through th e fibers of 

your optic nerve int o   the visual part of your cortex.  If you listen t o  the d o g bark, a 

different  set of pa tterns will flow along your auditory nerve and int o  the hearing 

parts of yo ur brai n. If  you pet t he dog, a set of touch-sensation patterns will flow 

from y o ur hand, t h ro ugh fi bers in your spine, and into the parts  of y o ur brain that  
						脊椎
deal with touch. Each pattern― see the do g, hear the dog, feel the dog― is 

experienced differently  because each gets  channeled through a different path in 

the cortical hierarchy. It matters where the  cables go to inside the brain. But at the 

abstract level of sensory inputs, these  are all essentially the same, and are all  

handled in similar ways by the six-layered cortex. You hear sound, see light, and 

feel pressure, but inside your brain there isn't any fundamental difference between 

these types of information.  An action potential is an action potential. These 

momentary spikes are identical regardless of what originally caused them. All your 
瞬间    		相同的
brain knows is patterns. 


Your perceptions and knowledge about the world are built from these patterns. 

There's no light inside  your head . It's dark i n  there.  There's no soun d entering your

brain eithe r . It's quiet  inside. In  fact, the br ain is the onl y  part of  your body that 

has no senses itself. A surgeon could stick a finger into your brain and you  
			外科医生
wouldn't feel it. All the information that e n ters your mi nd comes in as s p atial and 

temporal patterns on the axons. 


40页

What exactly do I mean by spatial and temporal patterns ?  Let's look  at each of our 
			 空间的		暂时的
main senses in turn. Vision carries both spatial and temporal information.  Spatial 

patterns  are coincident patterns in time; they  are created when multiple receptors 
		同时发生的							受体
in the same sense organ are stimulated simultaneously. In vision, the sense organ 
				受刺激	同时的
is your retina. An  image enters your pupil , gets inverted  by your  lens,  hits y ou r 
	视网膜				瞳孔		相反的		晶状体
retina, and creates a spatial pattern. This  pattern gets relayed to your brain. 
							   传播	
People tend to think that  there's a little upside-down  picture of the world going 

into your visual areas, but that's not how it works. There  is no picture. It's not an 

image anymore. Fundamentally,  it is j u st electrical activity firing in patterns. Its 

imagelike qualities get lost very rapidly  as your cortex handles  the inf o rm ation, 

passing components of the pattern up and down between different areas, sifting 
	组件								
them, filtering them. 



Vision also relies on  temporal patterns,  which means the patterns entering your 
		依靠
eyes are constantly changing over time. Bu t while the spatial aspect of vision is  

intuitively  obvious,  its temporal aspect is less apparent. About three times every 
					不怎么显著
second, your eyes make a sudden movement called a saccade. Th ey fixate on one 
						眼跳跃，眼急动，眼扫视	
poin t, and then suddenly jump to another point.  Every time your eyes move, the 

image on your retina changes. This means that the patterns carried into your brain 

are also changing completely with each saccade. And that's in the simplest  possible 

case of you just sitting still looking at  an unchanging scene. In  real life, you 

constantly  move your  head and body  and walk through continuously  shifting 

environments. Your conscious impression is  of a stable world  full of objects and 

people that are easy t o  keep track of. Bu t this impression is only made possible by 

your brain' s ability to deal with a torrent of retinal images that never repeat a 

pattern exactly. Natural vision, experienced as patterns entering the brain, flows 

like a  river.  Vision is more li ke a song than  a  painting. 



Many vision researchers ignore saccades and the rapidly changing patterns of 

vision. Working with anesthetized animals,  they study how vision occurs when an 
			被麻醉
unconscious animal fixates on a point. In  doing so, they're taking away the time 

dimension. There's nothing wrong with that  in principle; eliminating variables is a 
								消除
core element of the scientific  method. But they're throwing away a central 

component of vision, what it  actually consists of. Time  needs a central place in a 

neuroscientific account  of vision.



With hearing, we're used to thinking about sound's temporal aspect. It is intuitively  

obvious to us that sounds, spoken language, and m u sic change over time. You 

can't listen to a song all at once  any more than you can hear  a spoken sentence 

instantaneously. A song only exists over  time. Therefore we don't usually think of 

sound as a spatial pattern. In a way, it's  the inverse of the case with vision: the

temporal aspect is immediately apparent, but its  spatia l aspect is  less obvious.


41页

Hearing has a spatial component as well. You convert sounds into action potentials 
									潜能
through a  coiled-up organ  in each ear called the cochlea.  Tiny, opaque, spiral-
		成圈					耳蜗
shaped, and embedded in the hardest bone in the bo dy, th e temporal bone, the 
		嵌入式的
cochlea was deciphered more than half a  century ago by a Hungarian physicist,  
		解释
Georg von Beksey. Building models of the  inner ear, von Beksey discovered tha t  

each component of sound you hear causes a different portion of the cochlea to 

vibrate. High-frequency tones cause vibrations in the cochlea's stiff base. Low-
震动					震动			
frequency tones cause vibrations in the cochlea's floppier  and wider outer portion. 
							松散的
Mid-frequency tones vibrate intermediate segments. Each site on the cochlea is 

studded with neurons that fire as they are shaken. In daily life your cochleas are  
散布
being vibrated by large numbers of simultaneous frequencies all the time. So each 

moment there is a new spatial pattern of stimulation along the length of each 

cochlea. Each moment a new spatial pattern  streams up the auditory nerve .  Again 

we see that this sensory in formation boils down to spatial-temporal patterns. 



People don't usually t h ink of touch as a  temporal phenomenon, but it is every bit 

as time-based as it is spatial. You can carry out an experiment to see for yourself. 

Ask a friend to cup his hand, palm face  up, and close his eyes. Place a small 

ordinary o bject in his  palm― a ring,  an eraser, anything will do― and ask him to 

identify it without  moving  any part of  his hand. He  won't have a clue other than 

weight and maybe gross size. Then tell him to keep hi s eyes closed and move his 

fingers over the object. He'll most  likely identify it at once. By  allowing the f i ngers 

to mo ve, yo u've added time to the sensory perception of  touch. There's a direct 

analogy between the fovea at the  center of  your retina and your fingertips , both o f 

which have high  acuity . So touch, too, is like a song. Your a b ili ty t o  make complex 

use of touc h, such as buttoning your shirt or  unlocking your front door in  the  dark,  

depends  o n  continuous time- varying patterns of  touch sensation . 



We teach our children that humans have five senses: sight, hearing, touch, smell, 

and taste. We really have more. Vision  is more like three senses― motion, color, 

and luminance (black-and-white contrast). Touch has pressure, temperature, pain, 

and vibration. We also have an entire system of sensors that tell us about our joint  

angles and bodily position . It is  called the proprioceptive system (poprio-  has the 
						立体感受的
same Latin root as  proprietary  an d   property ). You couldn't move without it. We  
			所有权	
also have the vestibular system in the inner ear, which gives us our sense of 
		前庭系统
balance. Some of these senses  are richer  and more apparent to  us than others, 

but they all enter our brain as streams of spatial patterns flowing through time on 

axons. 



Yo u r  c o r t ex  do esn 't  r ea l l y  k n o w or  s en se the world directly. The o n ly  thin g  the  

cortex knows is the pattern streaming in  on the input axons. Your perceived view 

of the world is created from these patterns, including your sense of self. In fact,

your  brain can't directly kn ow where  your bo dy ends and t he world begins. 

Neuroscientists studying body image have found that our sense of self is a lot 

more flexible than it feels. For example, if I  give you a little rake and have you use 

it for reaching and grasping instead of using your hand, yo u will  soon feel th at it 

has become a part of your body . Your  brain wil l change its expectations to 

accommodate the new patterns of tactile input. The rake is literally incorporated 
									合并
in to you r body map. 

42页

The idea that patterns from different senses are equivalent inside your brain is 
						等价的
quite surprising, and although well understood, it still isn't widely appreciated. 

More examples are in order. The first  one  you can reproduce a t  home. All yo u  
							复制
need is a friend, a freestanding cardboard screen, and a fake hand. For your first 

time running this experiment , i t  would be ideal if y o u had a rubber hand, su ch a s 

you might  buy at a Halloween  store, but  it will also work  if you just trace your 
										描绘
hand on a  sheet of blank paper. Lay your  real hand on a tabletop a few inches 

away from the fake one and align them the same (fingertips pointed in the same 
		假的
direction, palms either both u p  o r b o th  d o wn) .  T h en   place the screen between the 

two hands  so that all you can s ee is the false one. While you stare at the fake 

hand, yo ur  friend's job is to simultaneously  stroke both  hands at corresponding 
						抚摸
points. For  example, your friend  could  stroke bot h  pinkies from  knuckle to nail at 
									关节		指甲
the same speed, then issue  three quick taps to the second joint of both index 

fingers with the same timing, then stroke a few light circles on the back of each  

hand, and so on. After a short time, areas in your brain where visual and 

somatosensory patterns come together ― one of those association areas I 

mentioned earlier in this chapter― become confused. You will actually feel the 

sensations being applied to the  dummy hand as if it were your own. 



Another fascinating example of this "pattern equivalency" is called sensory 

substitution. It may revolutionize life for people who  lose their  sight in  childhood,  
置换			使革命化
and might someday be a boon to people who are born blin d. I t  also might spawn 

new machine interface technologies for the rest of us. 



Realizing that the brain is all about patterns, Paul Bach y Rita, a professor of 

biomedical engineering at the University of Wisconsin, has developed a method for 

displaying visual patterns on  t h e human  tongue. Wearing  this display device, blind 

persons are learning to "see" via sensations on the tongue. 


Here is how it works. The subject wears a  small camera on his forehead and a chip 

on his tongue. Visual  images are translated pixel for  pixel into points of pressure 

on the tongue. A visual scene th at can be displayed as hundred s of pixels on a 

crude television screen can  be turned into a  pattern of hundreds  of tiny pressure 

points on the tongue. The brain quickly learns to interpret the patterns correctly. 



One of the first people to wear the tongue -mounted device is Erik Weihenm a yer, a 

world-class  athlete who went blind at age thirteen and who lectures widely about 

not letting blindness stop his ambitions. In 2002, Weih enmayer summited Mount 

Everest, becoming the first blind person ever to undertake, much  less accomplish, 

such a goal. 

43页


In 2003, Weihenmaye r tried on the tongue  unit and saw images for the first time 

since his childhood. He was  able to discern a ball rolling on the floor toward him , 

reach for a soft drink on a table, and play  the game Rock, Paper, Scissors. Later he 

walked down a hallway, saw the door openings, exam ined a door and its  frame, 

and noted that there was a sign on it.  Images initially experienced as sensations  

on the tongue were soon experienced as images in space. 



These examples show once again that the cort ex is extremely flexible and that the 

inputs to the brain are just patterns.  It doesn't matter where the patterns come 

from; as long as they correlate over time  in consistent ways, the brain can make 

sense of them. 


A ll of t h is shoul d n't be too surprising if we take the view that patterns are all the  

brain knows about. Brains are pattern machines. It's not incorrect to express the 

brain's functions in terms of  hearing or vision, but at  the most fundamental level, 

patterns are the name of the game. No  matter how different the activities of 

various cortical areas may seem from each other, the same basic cortical algorithm 

is at work. The cortex doesn't  care if the patterns originated in vision, hearing, or 

another sense. It doesn't care if its inputs  are from a single sensory organ or  from 

four . Nor woul d it care  if y o u happ ened t o   perceive the world with sonar, radar, or 

magnetic fields, or if you had tentacles rather than hands, or even if you lived in a 

world of fo ur dimensions rath er than three. 


This means you don't need  any one of your senses or any particular combination 

of senses to be intelligent. Helen Keller had no sight and no hearing, yet she 

learned language and became  a  more skillful writer than most sighted and hearing 

people. Here was a very inte lligent person without two  of our main senses, yet the 


incredible flexibility of the brain allowed he r to perceive and understand the  world 

as individuals with all five senses do. 



This kind of remarkable flexibilit y in the human mind  gives me high hopes for the 

brain-inspired technology we will create. When I think a b out  building inte llige n t 

machines, I wonder, Why stick to our familiar senses? As long as we can decipher 

the neocortical algorith m and come up with a science of patterns ,  we can apply it 

to any system that we want to make intelligent. And one of  the great features of 

neocortically inspired circuitry is that we won't need to  be especially clever in  

programming it . Just  as auditory  cortex  can become  "visual" cortex in a rewired  

ferret, just as visual cortex finds alternative usage in blind people, a system 

running the neocortical algorithm will be intelligent based on whatever kinds of 

patterns we choose to give it.  We will still need to be smart about setting up the  

broad parameters of t h e system, and we will need to train and educate it. But the 

billions of neural details involved in th e  br ain's ability to have complex, creative 

thoughts will take care of  themselves, as naturally as  they do in our children. 



Finally, the  idea that patterns are the fundamental currency of intelligence leads to  

some interesting philosophical questions. When I sit in a room with my friends, 

how do I know they are there or  even if  they are real ? My brain receives a set of  

patterns that are consistent with patterns I have experienced in the past. These 

patterns correspond to people I know, their faces, their voices, how they usually 

behave, and all kinds of facts about them . I have learned to expect these patterns  

to occur together in predictable ways. But when you come down to it, it's all just a 

model. All our knowledge of the world is a model based on patterns. Are we 

certain the  world is r eal? It's fun and odd to think ab out.  Several science-fiction 

books and movies explore this  theme. This is not to say tha t  t h e people  or objects 

aren't really there. They are really there. But our certainty of the world's existence 

is based on the consistency of patterns  and how we interpret them. There is no 

such thi n g as direct perception. We don't have a "people" sensor. Remember, the 

brain is in a dark qui et box with  no  kn owledge of a nythi ng other than the time-

flowing patt erns on its input fibers. Your perception of the world is created from 

these patterns, nothing else. Existence may  be objective, but the spatial-temporal  

patterns fl owing int o  t h e axon  bundles in our brai ns are all we hav e to go on. 




This discussion highlights the sometimes-questioned relationship between  

hallucination and reality. If you can hallucinate sensations coming from a rubber  
幻觉
hand and you can " see" via touch stimulation of your tongue, are you being 
					刺激
equally "fooled" when you sense touch on your own hand or see with your eyes?  

Can we trust that the world is as it seems? Yes. The world really does exist in an 

absolute form very close to how  we perceive it. However, our brains can't know  

abo u t th e absolute world  directly. 


The brain knows about the wo rld through a set of senses,  which can only detect 

parts of the absolute world. The senses create patterns th at are sent to the cortex, 

and processed by the same cortical algorith m to create a model of the world. In 

this way,  spoken l a nguage an d written language are perceived remarkably 

similarly, despite being complete ly different at the sensory level. Likewise, Helen 

Keller's model of the world was very close to  yo urs and mine , de spite the fact that 

she had a greatly reduced set of senses. Through these patterns the cortex  

constructs a model of the world that is  close to the real thing, an d then, 

remarkably, holds it in memory. It is memo ry― what  happen s to those patterns  

after they enter the co rtex― that  we 'll discuss in the next chapter. 











































 