


As y o u  r ead  t h i s b o ok,  wa l k  d o wn  a  c r o wded street, hear a symphony, or comfort 

a crying child, yo ur brain is being floo ded with the spatial a n d temporal patterns  

from all of your senses. The world is an ocean of constantly changing patterns that  

come lapping and crashing into  your brain. How do you manage to make sense of 

the onslaught? Patterns stream in, pass through various parts of the old brain, and 
	袭击
eventually arrive at the ne ocortex. But  what  happens t o  them when they enter the 

cortex? 



From the dawn of the industrial revolution, people have viewed th e brain as some 

sort of machine. They knew  the r e weren't gears and cogs in the  head, but it was 
						齿轮	钝齿
the best metaphor they had. Somehow  information entered th e brain and the 

brain-machine determined how the body should  react.  During t he computer  age, 
		决定
the brain has been viewed as a particul ar  type of machine, th e programmable 

computer.  And as we saw in chapter 1, AI researchers have stuck with this view, 

arguing that their lack  of progress is only due to how small and slow computers 

remain compared to the human brain. Today's computers may be equivalent only 

to a cockroach brain, they say, but when we make bigger and faster computers 

they wil l  be as intelligent as humans. 



There is a largely ignored problem with this brain-as -computer analogy. Neurons 

are quite slow compared to the transistors in  a computer. A neuron  collects inputs 

from its synapses, and combines  these inputs  together to  decide when to  output a 

spike to other neurons. A typical neuron ca n do this and reset itself in about five 

milliseconds (5 ms), or around two hundre d times per second. This may seem fast, 

but a modern silicon-based computer can do one billion operations in a second. 

This means a basic computer operation is   five  million times faster than the basic  

operatio n in  your bra in! That is a very, very big difference. So how is it possible 

that a brain coul d be faster and more powerful than our fastest  digital computers? 

"No proble m," say the brain-as-computer people. "The brain is a parallel computer. 

It has billions of cells all computing at  the same time. This parallelism vastly 

multiplies the processing power of the biological brain."



I always felt this argument was a fallacy, and a simple thought experiment shows 
					谬论
why. It is called the "one hundredCstep rule." A hu man  can perform significant 
									有意义
tasks in much less time than a second. For  example, I could show you a 

photograph and ask you to determine if there is cat in the image. Your job would 

be to push a button if there is a cat, but not if you see a bear or a warthog or a 

turnip . This task is difficult  or impossible for a computer to perform today,  yet a 

human can do it reliably in half a second or  less. But neurons are slow, so in that  

half a  second,  the information entering  y our brain can only  traverse a chain o n e 

hundred neurons long. That is, the brain "computes" solutions to  problems l i ke this  

in one hundred steps or fewer, regardless of how many total neurons might be 

involved. From the time light enters your eye to the time you press the button, a 

chain no longer than  one hundred neurons could be involved. A digital computer 

attempting to solve the same problem would take billions of steps. One hundred 

computer instructions  are barely enough to move a single character on the 

computer's display, let alone do something interesting. 



But if I ha ve many millions of neurons wo rking together, isn't  that like a parallel 

computer? Not  really. Brains operate in  parallel and parallel computers operate in 

parallel, but that's the only thing they have in common. Parallel computers 

combine  many fast computers to  work on large problems such as co m p u t in g  

tomorrow's weather. To predict the weather you have to compute the physical 

conditions at many points on the planet. Each computer can  work on a different 

location at the same time. But even  though there may be hundreds or even 

thousands of computers working in parallel,  the individual computers still need to 

perform billions or trillions of steps  to  accomplish their task. The largest 

conceivable parallel computer can't do anything useful in one hundred steps, no 

matter how large or how fast. 



Here is an analogy. Suppose I ask you to c a rry one hundred stone blocks across a 

desert. You can carry one stone at a time a n d it takes a million steps to cross the  

desert. You figure this  will take a long time   to complete by yours elf, so you recruit 

a hundred  workers to do it  in parallel. The task now  goes a hundred times faster,  

but it still requires a minimum of a million  steps to cross the desert. Hiring more 

workers― even a thousand  workers― wouldn't provi e any additional gain . No 

matter how many workers you hire, the proble m cannot be solved in less time than 

it takes to walk a million steps. The same  is true for parallel computers. After a 

point, adding more processors doesn't make a difference. A computer, no matter 

how many processors it might have and no matter how fast it runs, ca nnot 

"compute" the answer to difficult  problems in one hundred steps. 



So how can a brain perform di ff icult tasks in one hundred steps that the largest 

parallel computer imaginable can't solve in a million or a billion steps? The answer 

is the brain doesn't " compute" the answers to problems; it retrieves the answers 

from memory.  In essence, the answers were stored in memory a long time ago. It 
		本质
only takes a few steps to  retrieve something from  memory. Slow neurons a r e not 

only  fast e n ough t o  do this, but they constitute the memory themselves. The entire 

cortex is a memory system. It isn't a computer at all. 



Let me show, through an example, the difference between computing  a solution to 

a problem and using memory to solve the same problem. Consider the task of 

catching a ball. Someone throws a ball to  you, you see it traveling toward you, and 

in less than a second you snatch  it out of the air. This  doesn't seem too difficult―
			抓取
until you try to program a robot arm to do the same. As many a graduate student 

has found out the hard way, it seems nearly impossible. When engineers or 

computer scientists tackle this pr oblem, they first try to calculate the flight  of the 

ball to   determine where it will be when  it reache s the arm. This calculation 

requires solving a set of equations of the  type you learn in high school physics. 

Next, all the joints of a robotic arm have to be adjusted in concert to move the 

hand into the proper position. This involves solving another set of mathematical 

equations more diffic u lt than the first.  Finally, this whole operation has to be 

repeated multiple times, for as the ball approaches, the robot gets better 

information about the ball's location and  trajectory. If the robot waits to start 

moving until it  knows exactly where the ball will arrive it w ill be too late t o  catch it.  

It has to start moving to catch the ball when  it has only  a poor sense of its location 

and it continually adj u sts as the ball gets closer. A computer requires millions of  

steps to solve the numerous mathematical equations to catch the ball. And 

although a computer might be  programmed to successfully  solve this problem, the 

one hundredCstep rule tells us that a brain solves it in a different way. It uses 

memory. 



How do yo u catch the ball usi n g memory? Your brain has a stored memory of the 

muscle commands required to catch a  ball (along with many other learned 

behaviors). When a ball is thrown, three  things happen. First, the appropriate 

memory is automatically recalled by the sight  of the  ball. Second, th e memory 
		自动
actually recalls a temporal sequence of muscle commands. And third, the retrieved 

memory is  adjusted as it is recalled  to accommodate the particulars of the 
						适应		细节
moment, such as the ball's actual  path and the position  of your body. The memory 

of how to catch a ball was not programmed  into your brain; it was learned over 

years of repetitive  practice, and it is stored , not  calculated, i n  yo ur neurons. 



You might be thin ki ng, "Wait a minute .  Ea ch catch is  slightly different. You just 

said the recalled memory gets continually  adjusted to accommodate the variations 

of where the ball is on any particular throw… Doesn't that require solving the same 

equations we were trying to avoid?"  It may seem so, but  nature solved the 

problem of variation in a different and very  clever way. As we'll see later in this  

chapter, the cortex creates what  are called  invariant representations,  which handle 
						不变的  代表；表现；表示法；陈述
variations in the world automatically. A helpful analogy might  be to imagine what 

happens when you sit down on  a water bed: t h e pillows and any other people on 
						枕头
the bed are all spontaneously pushed into a new configuration.  The bed doesn't  
		自发的					配置
compute how high each object  should be elevated; the  physical properties of the 

water and the mattress's plastic skin take care of the adjustment automatically. As  

we'll see in the next chapter, the design of the six-la yered cortex does something 

similar, loosely speaking, with the information that  flows through it. 




48页
Computers ha v e mem o r y  t o o,  i n  t h e f o rm  o f h a r d  
drives and memory chips;  however, there are four attributes of neocortical 
memory that are fundamentally different  fr om com p ut er memory: 


下面四句话应该是理解本书的关键了吧
The neocortex stores sequences of patterns. 

The neocortex recalls patterns auto-associatively.  

The neocortex stores patterns in an invariant form.  

The neocortex stores patterns in a hierarchy. 



The next time you tell a story, step back and consider how you ca n only  relate one 
									  叙述
aspect of the tale at a time. You cannot  tell me everything that  happened all at 
		故事
once, no ma tter how quickly you talk or I listen. You need to finis h  one part of the 

story before you can move on to the next.  This isn't only because spoken language 

is serial; written, or al, and visual storytelling all convey a narrative in a serial 
							传达	故事
fashion. It is because the story is stored in your  head  in a  sequential  fashion and 
								连续的
can only be recalled in the same sequence. You can't remember the entire story at 

once. In fact, it's almost impossible to think of anything  complex that is n't a  series 

of events or thoughts. 



You may have noticed, too, that  in telling a story some pe ople can't get to the crux 
											关键
of it right away. They  seem to ramble on  with irrelevant details and tangents. This 
				漫谈		不相干
can be irritating . Yo u want to scream, "Get to the point!" But  they are chronicling  
	气人的									记录
the story as it happened to  them, through time, and cannot tell it  any other  way.



Another example: I'd  like you to imagine  yo ur home right now. Close your eyes 

and visualize it. In your imagination, go t o the front  door. Ima gine what it  looks 

like. Open your front door .  M o v e i n si d e.  Now l o o k  t o  y o u r  l ef t.  Wh a t  d o  y ou s ee ?  


Look to the right. Wha t  is there? Go to your bathroom. What's on the right? What's 

o n  t h e l ef t?  Wh a t 's i n  t h e top right draw er? What i t ems do you keep in your 

shower? You know all these things plus  thousands more and  can recall them in 

great detail. These memories are stored in your cortex. You migh t say these things  

are all part of the memory of your home. Bu t yo u can't think of t h em all at once.  

They are obviously related memories but there is no wa y yo u can bring to  mind a l l 

of t h is detail at once. You  ha v e a  t h o ro ug h  mem o r y  o f y ou r  h o me;  b u t t o r eca l l  i t  

you have to go thro ugh it in sequential  segments, in much the same way as you 

experience it. 


49页


All memories are like this. Yo u have to wa lk through the temporal sequence of  how 

you do thi n gs. One pattern (a pproach  the door) evokes the next pattern (go 
							唤起
through the door ), w h ich evoke s the next pattern ( either go down t h e hall or 

ascend the stairs), and so on. Each is a sequence you've fo llo wed bef ore. Of 

course, with a conscious effort I  can change the order of how I describe my home 

to you. I c a n jump from basement to the second floor if I decide to focus on items 

in a nonsequential wa y. Yet once I start to describe any room or item I've chosen, 

I'm back t o  fol l owing  a sequence. Truly random thoughts don't exist. Memory 

recall almost always follows a pathway of as sociation. 



You know the alphabet. Try saying it backward. You can't b ecause you don't 
		字母表
u su a l ly  e x per i en ce i t  ba ck wa r d .  I f  y o u  wa nt  t o  k no w wh a t  i t 's l ik e t o  be a  c h i l d 

learning the alphabet, try saying it in  reverse. That's exactly what they're 

confronted  with. It's really hard . Your memory of t he alphabet  is a sequence of 

patterns. It isn't something stored or recalle d in an instant or in  an arbitrary order. 

The same thing goes for the da ys  of the week, the months of the y ear, your phone 

number,  a nd countless other things. 


Your memory for s ongs is  a great exam ple of temporal sequences in memory. 

Think of a tune you know. I like to use  "Somewhere over the Rainbow," but any 
		曲调
melody will suffice. You cannot imagine the entire song at once, only in sequence. 
旋律		足够
You can start at the beginnin g or maybe with the chorus, and then you play 

through it, filling in the  notes one after another. You can't recall the song 

backward, just as you can't recall it al l at once. You were first exposed to 

"Somewhere over the Rainbow" as it played  through t ime, and you can on ly recall 

it in the same wa y you learne d it. 



This applies to very low level sensory memories too. Consider your tactile  memory 
	适用								・触觉
for textures. Your cortex has memories of  what it feels like to hold a fistful of 
	纹理								一把
gravel, slide your fingers over  velvet , and press down on a  piano key. These 
碎石					天鹅绒
memories are based on sequences every bit as much as the alphabet and songs 

are; it's just that the  sequences are shor ter, spanning mere fractions of a second 

rather than many seconds or  minutes. If I buried your hand i n  a  bucket of gravel 

while yo u slept, when  you woke up you  wouldn 't k n ow what you were touching 

until  you moved yo ur fingers. Your memory for the  tactile texture of gravel is  
							触觉  质地       碎石
based on pattern sequences across the pressure-and vibration-sensing neurons in 
							震动
your s k in. These sequences are different from those you'd receive if your hand was 

buried in  s a nd or Styrofoam pellets or dry leaves. As soon as y o u flexed your hand,  
									弯曲
the scraping and rolling of the pebbles wo uld create the telltale pattern sequences 

of gravel  a n d trigger th e appropriate  memory  in your  s o matosensory cortex. 




The next time you get out of the shower,  pay attention to how you dry yourself off 

with a towel. I discovered that I dry  my self off with nearly the exact same 

sequence of rubs, pats, and body positions each time. And via a pleasant 

experiment I discovered that my wife also follows a semirigid  pattern when she 
							半硬式的
steps out of the shower. Yo u proba b ly  do too.  If  you follow  a sequence, try 

changing it . You can will yourself to do it , but you ne ed to stay focused. If your 

attention w a nders, you'll fall  bac k i n to y o ur accustomed pa ttern.

50页


All memories are stored in the synaptic connections between neurons. Given the 

very large number of things  we have stored  in our cortex, and that at any moment 

in time we can recall only a tiny fraction  of these stored memories, it stands to 
				微笑的 部分
reason that only a limited number of  synapses and neurons in your brain are 

playing an active role in memory  recall at any one time. As  you sta r t to recall what 

is in your home, one  set of  neurons becomes active, which t h en  leads to another 

set of neurons being active, and so  on . An adult human  neocortex has an 

incredibly large memory capacity . But ,   even though we have stored so many 

things, we can only remember a few at an y time and can only do so in a sequence 

of associations. 



Here is a f un exercise. Try to recall details from your past, details of where you 

lived, places you visited, and people you knew. I  find I ca n always uncover 

memories of things I haven't thought of  in many years. There a r e thousands of 

detailed memories stored in the synapses of our brains  that are rarely used. At any 

p o in t  i n  time we re ca l l  only  a tiny  f r a cti o n  of  wha t  we kn o w.  Mo st  of  t h e 

information is sitting there idly waitin g for t h e appropriate  cues to invoke it . 



Computer memory does not normally store sequences of patter ns. It can be made 

to do so using various software tricks  (such as when you store  a song o n  yo ur  

computer), but c o mputer memory does not do  this automatically. In contrast, the 

cortex does store sequences automatically.  Doing  so is an inherent aspect of th e 

neocortical memory system. 


Now let's consider the second key featur e of our memory, its auto-associative 

nature. As  we saw in chapter 2, the  term simply means that patterns are 

associated with themselves. An auto-associative memory system is one that can 

recall complete patterns when given only partial or distorted inputs. This can work 

for both spatial and temporal patterns. If  you see your child's  shoes sticking out 

from behind the draperies, you  automatica lly envision his or her entire form. You  
						想象
complete the spatial pattern  from a partial version of  it. Or imagine you see a 

person waiting for a bus but can only see part of her because she is standing 

partially behind a bus h . Your  brain is  not confused. Your eyes only see parts of a 

body, but yo ur brai n fills in  the rest, creating a perception  of a whole person that's 

so strong you may not even realize you're only inferring. 
						推断


You also complete temporal patterns. If  you recall a small detail about something 

that happe ned lo ng a g o,  the ent i re memory  sequence can come f l ooding back into 

your mind. Marcel Proust's famous series of novels, Remembrance of Things Past, 

opened with the memory of how a madeleine cookie smelled― a n d he was off and 

running for  a thousand-plus pages. During conversation  we of ten can't hear all th e 

words if we are in a noisy enviro nment .  No  problem. Our brains fill in what they 

miss with what they expect to hear. It's well established that we don't a ctually 

hear all the words we perceive. Some people complete others' sentences aloud, 

b u t in  ou r min d s all of  us are do in g  this constantly. And not just the ends of  

sentences, but the mi ddles and beginni n gs as wel l .  F o r  t h e mo st  p a r t  we a r e n o t 

aware that we're constantly completing patterns, but it's a ubiquitous and  

fundamental feature of how memories are  stored in the cortex. At any time, a 

piece can activate the whole. This is the essence of auto-associative memories. 


51页


Your neoc ortex is a complex biological auto-associative memory. During each 

waking moment, each function al region is essentially waiting vigilantly for familiar  
						本质上		戒备的
patterns or pattern fragments to come  in. You can be in deep thought ab out 
			片段
something, but the instant your friend appears your thoughts switch to her. This 

switch isn't something you chose to do. The mere appearance of your friend forces 
						仅仅
your brain to start recalling patterns associated with her. It's unavoidable. A f ter an 

interruption we frequently  have to ask,  "What was I thinking about?" A dinner 

conversation with friends follows a circuitous route of associations. The talk may 

start with t h e food in front of you, but  the salad evokes an associated memory o f 

y o u r mo t her 's s a l a d  a t  y o u r wedding ,  which leads to a memory  of someone else's 

wedding, which leads to a memory of where  they went on t h eir honeymoon,  t o  the  
								蜜月
political problems in that part of t h e world, an d so on. Thoughts and memorie s are 

associatively linked, and again, random thoughts never really occur. Inputs to the  

brain auto-associatively link to themselves, filling in the  present, and auto-associatively link to wh at normally follows next. We ca ll t h is cha i n of mem o ries 

thought,  a nd although its path  is not deterministic, we are not fully in control of it 

either.


N ow we can consi d er  the third  major attribute of neocortical memory: how it 

forms what are called invariant representations.  I will cover the basic ideas of 
			不变的	表现
invariant representations in this chapter an d, in chapter 6, the details of how the 

cortex creates them. 


A computer's memory is designed to store information exactly as it is presented. If  

you copy a program from a CD to a hard  disk, every byte is copied with 100 

percent fidelity. A single error or discrepancy between the two copies might cause 
					不符
the program to crash. The memo ry i n  our neocortex is different. Our bra i n does 

not remember exactly what it sees, hears,  or feels. We don't remember or recall 

things with complete fidelity― not because  the cortex and its neurons are sloppy 

or error-prone but because the  brain remembers the important relationships in th e 

world, in dependent of  the details. Let's lo ok at several examples to illustrate this 

poin t.



52页


As we saw in chapter 2, simple auto-associative memory models have been around 

for decades and, a s I described above,  the brain recalls memories auto-

associatively. But there is a big difference between the auto-associative memories 

built by neural network researchers and  those in the cortex. Artificial auto-

associative memories do not use invariant representations and therefore they fail 

in some very basic ways. Imagine I have a picture of a face formed by a large 

collection of black-and-white dots. This  picture is a pattern, and if  I  have an 

artificial auto-associative memory I can store many pictures of faces in the 

memory. Our artificial auto-associative memory is robust in that  if I  give it  h a lf  a  
						 强壮的
face or  j u st  a  p a i r  of eyes,  i t  will  recognize that part of the image and fill in th e 

missing parts correctly . This exact experiment has been done several times. 

However, if I move each dot in the picture five pixels to the left, the memory 

completely fails to  recognize the face. To  the artificial auto-a ssociative memory, it 

is a completely novel pattern, because none of the pixels between the previously 

stored pattern and the new pattern are aligned .  You and I, of  course, would have 
					对齐的
no difficulty seeing the shifted pattern as  the same face. We probably wouldn't 

even notice the change. Artificial auto-associative  memories fail to recognize 

patterns if they are moved, rotated, rescaled, or transformed in any of a thousand 

other ways, whereas our brains handle these variations with ease. How can we 

perceive something as being the same  or constant when the input patterns 

representing it are novel and changing? Let's look  at another example. 



You are probably holding a book in your hands righ t now. As you move the book , 

or change the lighting, or reposition yourself in your c h ai r, or fixate your eyes on 

different parts of the page, the  pattern of light falling on your  retina changes 

completely. The visual  input  you receive is different moment by moment and never 

repeats. In fact, you could hold  this book for a hundred years and not once would 

the pattern  on your retina, and therefore the pattern entering your  brai n,  be  

exactly the same. Yet not for an  instant do you have any doubt th at y o u are 

holding a book, indeed the  same book. Your brain' s internal pattern representing 

"this book"  does not c h ange ev en  though the stimuli informing you it's there are i n  

constant flux. Hence we use the term  invariant representation  to refer t o  the  

brain's internal representation. 



For another example, think of a friend's face. You recognize her every time you 

see her. It happens automatically in less than a second. It doesn't matter if she is 

two feet away, three feet away, or across  the room. When she is close, her image 

occupies most of your retina. When she  is far away, her image occupies a small 

portion of your retina. She can be facing  you, turne d  a little  to the side, or in 

profile. She might be smiling, squinting,  or yawning. You might see her in bright 

light, in shade, or under strangely angled disco lights. Her visage can  appear in 
								容貌
countless positions and variations. For each one, the pattern of light falling on your 

retina is  unique, yet in every case you know  instantly that you  are looking at her. 



53页


Let's pop the hood  and look at what's going on  in your bra i n to perform this 

amazing feat. We know from experiments  that if we monitor the activity of 

neurons in the visual input area of your cortex, called V1, the pattern of activity is  

different for each different view of her  face. Every time the face moves or your 

eyes make a new fixation, the pattern of activity in V1 changes, much like the 
		固定
changing pattern on the retina . However, if we monitor the activit y  of cells in your  

face recognition area ― a functional region that's several steps higher than V1 in 

the cortical hierarchy― we find stability. That is, some set  of the cells in the face 
				稳定的			一些细胞集合在人脸识别中
recognition area remain active as long as your friend 's face is anywhere in your 
		一直保持活跃，只要人脸进入视觉区域		无论从任何情况
field of vision (or even bein g conjured in your mind's  eye), regardless of its size, 
				变魔术的
position, orientation, scale, and expression. This stability of cell firing is an 
								细胞  激活
invariant representation.



Introspectively, this task seems so easy as  to be hardly worth calling it a problem. 
反省的							几乎不
It's as automatic as breathing. It seem s trivial because we aren't consciously 
						不重要的
aware it is happening. And in some sense, it is  trivial because our brains can solve 

it so quick l y (remember the one hundredC step rule). However, the problem of 

understanding  how your cortex forms invariant representations remains one of the 

biggest mysteries in all of science. How difficult ,  y o u  a sk ?  S o  much  s o  t h a t  n o  o n e, 
	迷
not even using the most powerful computers in the world,  has been able to solve 

it. And it isn't for a lack  of trying.


Speculation on this problem has an ancient pedigree. It traces back to Plato,  
推测
twenty-three centuries ago. Plato wondered how people are able to think and 

know about the world. He pointed out that  real-world instances of things and ideas 

are always imperfect and are always different. For example, you have a concept of 

a perfect circle, yet you have never actually seen one. All drawings of circles are 

imperfect.  Even if drafted with a geometer's compass a so-called circle is 
			设计
represented by a dark line, whereas the circumference of a true circle has no  

thickness at all. How then did you ever acquire the concept of a perfect circle? Or 

to take a more worldly case, think a b out  yo ur concept of dogs.  Every dog you've  

ever seen is different from every other,  and every time you see  the same individual 

dog you see a different view  of  it . All dogs are different and you can never see any 

particular dog exactly the same way twice. Yet all of your various experiences with 

dogs get funneled into  a mental concept of "d og" that is stable across all of them. 
		漏斗
Plato was perplexed. How is  it possible that we learn and apply concepts in this 

world of infinitely various forms and ever-shifting sensations? 



Plato's solution was his famous Theory of Forms. He concluded that our higher 

minds mus t  be tethered to some transcendent plane of superreality, where fixed, 
		用绳联系	卓越的		程度   超现实
stable ideas (Forms with a capital F) exist in timeless perfection. Our souls come 
						永恒的  完美
from this mystical place before birth, he decided, w h ich is where they learned 

about the Forms in the first place. After we 're born we retain latent knowledge of 

them. Learning a n d understanding hap p en because real-world forms remind us of 

the Forms to which they correspond. You are able to know about circles and dogs 

because they respectively trigger your  soul memories of Circle and Dog.

54页

It's all quite loopy fro m  a modern perspective. But if you strip away the high-flown 
		呆头呆脑的					夺去
metaphysics, you can see that he was really talking about invariance. His system 
形而上学						不变性
of explanation was wildly off the  mark, but his intuition that this was one of the  

most important questions we can ask about our own nature was a bull 's-eye. 



Lest you get the impression that invariance  is all about vision, let's look at s o me 

examples in other senses. Consider your tactile sense. When you reach into your 

car's glove compartment to find your sunglasses, your fingers only have to brush 

against t h em  for y o u to know you've found them. It doesn't matter which part of 

your hand makes the contact; it can be your  thumb,  a n y part of  any fi nger, or your  

palm. And the contact can be with any pa rt of the glasses, whether it's a lens, 

temple, hinge, or part of the frame. Just a second of moving any p a rt of your hand 

over any portion of the glasses is sufficient for your brain to identify them. In each  

case, the stream of spatial and temporal patterns coming from your touch 

receptors is entirely different― different areas of your skin, different parts of the 

object― yet you snap up your sunglasses without a thought. 



Or conside r  the sensorimotor task  of putting  the key in  your car's ignition switch. 

The position  of  your seat, body,  arm, and hand are slightly different each time. To 

you it feels like the same simple repetitive action day in, day out, but that's  

because you have an invariant representation of it in your brain. If you tried to 

make a robot that could enter the car and put in  the key, you would quickly see 

how nearly  impossibl e it is unless  you made sure the robot was in the exact same 

position, and held t he key in e x actly the same way every time. And even if you 

could manage to do t h is, t h e ro bot would  need to be  reprogrammed for different 

cars. Robots and computer programs, like artificial auto-associ ative memories, are 

terrible at handling variation.



Another interesting example is your signature. Somewhere in your motor cortex, in 

your frontal lobe, you have an invariant representati on of your autograph. Every 
								亲笔
time yo u si gn yo ur name, yo u use the  same sequence of strokes, angles, and 

rhythms .  This is true whether you sign  it m i nutely with a  fine-tipped pen, 

flamboyantly like John Hancock, in the air with your elbow, or clumsily with a 

pencil held  between y o ur t o es. It comes out looking somewhat different each time, 

of course, especially under some of the awkward conditions I just named. 

Nevertheless, regardless of scale, writing implement, or combination of body parts, 

you always  run the  same abstract "motor  program" t o  produce it . 




From the signature example you can see that invariant representation in motor 

cortex is, in some ways, the mirror image of invariant representation in sensory 

cortex. On the sensory side,  a wide variety of input  patterns can activate a stable 

cell assembly that represents some abstract pattern (your friend's face, your 
					代表抽象的模式
sunglasses). On the motor side, a stable  cell assembly representing some abstract 
					
motor command (catch ing a ball, signing your name) is able to express itself using 

a wide variety of  muscle groups and respecting  a wide variety of other constraints. 

This symmetry between perception and action is what  we should expect if, as 
	对称性
Mountcastle proposed, the cortex runs a single basic algorit h m in all areas. 
		提议的


55页


For a final example, let's return to sensory cortex and look at music again. (I like 

using memory of music as an example beca use it is easy to see all the issues the 

neocortex must solve . ) Invariant representation in music is illustrated by your  
								阐明
ability to recognize a melody in  any key. The key a tune is played in refers to the 
			旋律
musical scale the melody is  built on. The same melody  played in different keys 
	铺子		旋律
starts on different notes. Once you  choose the key for a rendition, you've 
								演奏
determined the rest of the notes in the tune . Any melody can be played i n  any key. 

This means that each rendition of the "sam e" melody in a new key is actually an 

entirely different sequence of notes! Each rendition stimulates an entirely different 

set of l o ca tions on your  cochlea, causing an entirely different set of spatial-
				耳蜗
temporal patterns to stream up into your  auditory cortex… and yet you perceive 

the same melody in each case. Unless you have perfect pitch you cannot even 

distinguish the same song played in two different keys without hearing them back 

to back. 



Think of the song "Somewhere over the Rain bow." You probably first learne d it by 

hearing Judy Garland sing it in the movie  The Wizard  o f   O z ,  but unless  you  have 

perfect pitch you probably can't recall the key  she sang it in (A flat). If I sit down 

at a piano and start to play the song in  a key in which you've never heard it― say, 

in D― it will sound like the same song.  You won't notice that  all the notes are 

different from those in the version you' re  familiar with. This means that your 

memory of the song must be  in a form  that ignores pitch. The memory must store 

the important relationships in  the song, not the actual notes. In this case, the 

importa n t relations h ips are the relative  pitch of t h e notes, or "intervals." 

"Somewhere over  the Rainbow" begins with  an octave up, foll wed by a halft o ne 

down,  followed by a  major third down, and so on. The interval  structure of the 

melody is th e same for any rendition in any key. Your ability to easily recognize the 

song in any key indicates that your brain has stored it in  this pitch-invariant form. 
		表明


Sim i l a r l y,  t h e mem o r y o f  y ou r  f r ien d 's f a ce mu st  a l so  b e s t o r ed  i n  a  f o rm  t h a t  i s  

independent of any particular  view. What makes her face recognizable are its 

relative dimensions, relative  colors, and relative proportions, not how it appeared 

one instant last Tuesday at lunch. There are "spatial  intervals" between the 

features of her face ju st as there are "pitch intervals" between the notes of a song. 

Her face is wide relative to her eyes. Her  nose is short relative to the width of her 

eyes. The color of her hair and the color of her eyes have a similar relative 

relations h ip that stays  constant even though in different lighting conditio ns their 

absolute colors change significantl y.  When you memorized her face, you 

memorized these relative attributes. 


I believe a similar abstraction of form is occurring throughout  the cortex, in every 

region. Th is is a general property  o f  the   neocortex. Memories are stored in a form 

that captures the essence of relationships, not the details of the moment. When  

you see, feel, or hear something, the cort ex takes the detailed, highly specific 

input and converts it to an invariant form. It is the invariant form  that is stored in 

memory, an d it  is the invaria n t form of each new input pa ttern that it gets 

compared to. Memor y  storage ,  memory recall, a n d memory re cognit ion occur at 

the level of invariant forms. There is  no equi valent  conc ept i n  comp uters. 

56页


Imagine it is 1890, and you are in a frontier town in the American West. Your 

sweetheart  is taking the train from the East  to join you in your new frontier home.  

You of c o urse want to meet her at the station when s h e arrives. For a few weeks 

prior to  her  arrival day you keep track of  when the trains come and go. There is no 

set schedule and as far as you can tell  the train never arrives or leaves at the 
	安排
same time during the day. It is beginning to look as if  you won't be able t o  predict  

when her train will arrive. But t h en you notice there is some structure to the trains' 

comings and goings. The train coming from the East arrives four hours after one 

leaves heading east. This four-hour gap is  consistent day to day although the 
						始终如一的
specific times vary greatly. On the day of  her arrival, you keep  an eye out for the 

eastbound train, and when  you see it, you set your clock. After four hours you 

head for the station and meet her train just as it arrives. This parable illustrates 

both the problem the neocortex faces and the solution it uses to solve it. 



The world as seen by your senses is never the same; like the arrival and departure 

time of the train, it is  always different. The way you understand the world is by 

finding invariant structure in the constantly  changing stream of  input.  Ho wever, 

this invariant structure alone is not sufficient to use as a basis for making specific 
					足够的
predictions. Just knowing that the train arrives four hours after it departs doesn't 

allow you to  show up on the  platform exactly in time to greet your sweetheart. To 

make a specific prediction, the brain mu st combine knowledg e of the invariant 

structure with the most recent details. Predicting the arrival time of the train 

requires recognizing th e four-hour structure in the train schedule , and combining it 

with the detailed knowledge of w h at time the last eastbound train left. 


57页

When listening to a familiar song pla y ed on  a piano, your cort ex predicts the next 

note before it is played. But the memory of the song, as we've seen, is in a pitch-

invariant form. Your memory tells you what  interval is next, but says nothing, in 

and of itself, a b out the actual note. To predict the exact next note requires  

combining the next interval with the last specific note. If t h e next interval is a 

major third and the last note you heard wa s C, then you can predict the specific 

next note,  E. You hear in your mind E, not "major third . " And unless you've  

misidentified the song or the  pianist slips up, your  prediction is correct. 



When you see your friend's face, your cort ex fills in and predicts  the myriad details 

of her unique image at that instant. It checks that her eyes are just right, that her  

nose, lips, and hair are exactly as they should be. Your  cortex makes these 

predictions  with great specificity. It ca n predict low-level details about her face 

even though  you have  never seen her in th is particular orientation or environment 

before. If you know exactly where your friend's eyes and nose are, and you know 

the structure of her face, then you can pr edict exactly where her lips should be. If 

you know her skin is being tinged orange by the light of sunset, then you know  

what color her hair  shoul d  a ppear . Once  again, your brain does t h is by com b ining 

a memory of the invariant   structure of her face with the particulars of your  

immediate experience. 


The train schedule example is just an analogy of what is going on in your cortex, 

but the melody and face examples are not. The combining  of  invariant 

representations and current input to make  detailed predictions is exactly what is 

happening. It is a ubiquitous process that happens in every region of cortex. It is 
			普遍存在的
how you make specific predictions about the  room you are sitting in right now. It is 

how you are able to predict not  only the  words others will say, but also in what  

tone of voice they will say them, the accent they will use, and where in the room 

you expect  to hear the voice come from. It is how you know precisely when your 

foot will hit the floor, and what it  will feel  like when you climb a set of stairs. It is 

how y o u can sign  yo ur  name with your foot , or catch a thrown ball. 











































阿





阿
