58页


One day in April 1986 I was contemplating what it means to  "understand" 
				沉思
something. For months I had been struggling with the fundamental question What 

do brains do if  they aren't generating  behavior? W h at  does a br ain do when  it is 
				产生
passively listening to speec h? What is yo ur brain doin g  right n o w while it is  
被动的
reading? Information goes into the brain but doesn 't come ou t. Wh at h a ppens to 

it? Your be havi ors at th e moment  are probab ly basic―  such as breathing and eye 

movements―  yet, as you are aware, your brain is doing a lot more than that as 

you read and understand these words. Understanding must be the result of neural 

activity. But what? What are the ne urons doing when they understand? 



As I looke d  around my office that day,  I saw familiar chairs, posters, windows, 

plants , pe ncils, and so  on. T h ere were hundreds of items and features all around 

me. My eyes saw them as I glanced around, yet just seeing them  didn't cause me 

to perform  any action. No behavior  was invoked or required, yet some how I  

"understood" the room and its contents .  I was doing what Searl e's Chinese Room 

couldn't do, and I didn 't h a ve to pass anything back through a slot. I under stood, 

but ha d no  actio n  t o  prove it . What did it mean to "understand"? 



It was whi l e pondering this dilemma that I had an "aha" insigh t, o n e of  those  
				困境
emotionally powerful moments when sudd enly what was a tangle of confusion 
情感上的						混乱
becomes clear and understoo d . All I di d was ask what woul d happe n if a new 

object, one I had never seen before, appeared in the room― say, a blue co ffee 

cup. 


The answer seemed simple. I  would notice the new object as not belonging. It 

would catch my attention as being new.  I needn't consciously ask myself  if t h e 

coffee cup was new. It would just jump out as not belonging. Underlying that 

seemingly trivial answer is a powerful concept. To notice that something is  
		不重要
different , so me neurons in my  brain that weren't active before would have t o 

become active. H o w would thes e neuron s  know that the blue coffee cup w a s new 

and the hundreds of other obj ects in the room were not? The answer to  this 

question still surprises me. Our brains use  stored memories to constantly make 

predictions about everything  we see, feel, and hear. When I look around the room, 

my brain is using memories to form predictions about what it expect s to 

experience before I experience it. The vast majority of predictions occur outside of  

awareness.  It's as if different parts of my  brain were saying, "Is the computer in 

the middle of the desk? Yes. Is it black? Yes. Is the lamp  in the rig h t- h an d co rn er 

of the desk? Yes. Is the dict ionary where I left it? Yes. Is the window rectangular 

and the walls vertical? Yes. Is sunlight  coming from the correct direction for the

time of day? Yes." But when some visual pattern comes in that I had not 

memorized in that context, a prediction is violated. An d m y  attentio n is  drawn to 

the error. 



59页


Of course, the brain doesn't talk to itself  while making predictions, and it doesn't 

make predictions in a serial fashion. It also doesn't just make predictions about 

distinct objects like coffee cups. Your brain constantly  makes predictions about the 

very fabric of the world we live in, and it doe s so in a parallel fashion. It will just as 

readily detect an odd texture, a misshapen nose,  or an unusual motion. It isn't 
容易的  察觉	  奇怪的 纹理
immediately apparent how pervasive these  mostly unconscious predictions are, 
				普遍的		   无意识
which is perhaps why we missed their importance for so long. They happen so 

automatically, so easily, we fail to fathom  what is ha ppening  inside our skulls. I 
					看穿					头盖骨
hope to impress on you the powe r of this idea. Prediction  is so pervasive that what 

we "perceive"― that is, how the world appears to us― does not come solely from 

our senses. What we perceive i s a combination of what we sense and of our 

brains' memory-derived predictions. 
		推断

M inutes later I conceived a thought experiment to he lp convey what I understood 
		设想
at that moment. I call it the altered door experiment. Here is how it goes. 
				改变


When you  come hom e each day ,  yo u usuall y take a few seconds to go thr o ugh 

your front door or whichever do or you use. You reach out, tur n  t h e knob , walk in, 
									把手
a n d  s h ut  i t beh i nd  y ou .  I t 's a  firmly established habit, someth ing you  do all the 
						坚定地	确定的
time and pay litt l e attention to. Suppose wh ile you are out, I sneak over to your 
									暗中进行的
home and change something about yo ur d oor. It coul d be almost  anything. I could 

move the knob over by an inch , change around knob into a thumb latch, or turn it 

from brass to chrome. I could change the door's weight, substituting solid oak for 
							替代
a hollow door, or vice versa. I could make the hinges squeaky and stiff,  or make 

them glide frictionlessly. I could widen or narrow the door and its frame. I could 

change its color, add a knocker where the peephole used to be, or add a  window.  I  

can imagine a thousand changes  that could be made to your do or, unbeknownst to 
									不知的
you. When you come home t h at day a n d attempt to open the doo r , yo u will  quick l y 

detect that something is wrong. It might take you a few seco n ds' reflection to 

realize exactly what is wrong, but you will notice the change very quickly. As your 

hand reaches for t he moved knob, you will  realize  that it is not in t h e correct 

location. Or when you see the door's new window, something w ill appear odd. Or 

if t h e door's weight has been changed,  you will push with th e w r ong amount of  

force and be surprised. The point  is that  you will notice any of a thousand changes 

in a  very s h ort period of time.



How do you do that? How  do you notice these changes? The AI or computer 

engineer's approac h  t o  this prob lem would be to cr eate a list of all th e door's 

properties and put them in a database, with fields for every attribute a door can 

have and sp ecific entries for your particular door. When yo u approach t h e do or, 

the computer would query the en tire data base, look ing at width,  color ,  size, kn ob  

position, w eight , sound, a n d  so on. While this may sound superficially similar to 

how I described my brain checking each  of its myriad predictions as I glanced 

around my office, the difference is real  and far-reaching. The AI strategy is 

implausible. First, it is  impossible to sp ecify in advance every attribute a door can 

have. The list is potentially endless. Second, we would need to ha ve similar lists for 

every object we encounter every second of our lives. Third, nothing we know 

about brains and neur ons sugges t s that this is how they work. And finall y, neurons 

are just too slow to implement computer-s tyle databases. It would take you twenty 

minutes instead of two seconds to notice the  change as  you go  throu g h th e door . 

60页


There is only one way to interpret your  reaction to the altered door : your  brain 

makes low-level sensory predictions about wh at it expects to see, hear, and feel at 

every given moment , and it does so in parallel. All regions of your neocort ex are 

simultaneously trying to predict  what their next experience will be. Visual areas 

make predictions about edges, shapes, objects, location s, and motions. Auditory 

areas make predictions about tones, dire ct ion to source, and patterns of sound. 

Somatosensory areas make predictions  about t o uch, texture, contour,  and 

temperature. 



"Prediction" means that the neurons involved in sensing your door become active 

in advance  of t h em actually receiving sensory input. When th e sensory input does 

arrive, it is compared with what was  expected. As you approach the door, your  

cortex is forming a slew of predictions based on past experience. As you reach out, 

it predicts what you will feel on your finge r s, when you will feel the door, and at 

what angle  your joints will be when you  actually touch the door . As you start to 

push t h e door ope n , your cortex predicts how much resistance the door wil l  offer 

and how it  will sound. When your predictions are all  met, you'll walk through the 

door without consciously knowing these predictions  were verified. But if your 

expectations about the door are violated,  th e error will cause you to take notice. 

Correct predictions result in understanding.  The door  is normal. Incorrect 

predictions  result in confusion and prompt  you to  pay  attentio n. The door latch is 

not where it's supposed to  be. The do or i s too li ght. The do or is off center . The 

texture of the knob is wrong. We are making continuous low-level predictions in 

parallel across all our senses. 



But that's not all. I am  arguing a much stronger proposition. Pre d iction is not just 
							命题
one of the things your  brain does . It is th e  primary function  of t h e neocortex, and 

the foundation of intelligence.  The cortex is an organ of prediction. If we want to 

understand what intelligence is, what creativity is, how  your brain works, a nd how  

to build intelligent machines,  we must understand the   nature of these predictions 

and how the cortex makes them. Even behavior is best understood as a by-product 

of p r ediction . 


61页


I  don't know who was the first person to suggest that prediction is key to 

understanding intelligence. In science and industry  no on e invents anythi ng 
								创造
completely new. Rather, people see how existing ideas fit into new frameworks . 

The components of a  new idea are usually floating around in the  milieu of scientific 

discourse prior to its  discovery. What is  usually new is the packaging of these 
								包装
components into a cohesive  whole. Similarly, the idea  that a primary function of 
部件			结合的
the cortex is to make predictions is not entirely new. It has been floating around i n  

various forms for some time. But it has  not yet assumed its rightful position at the 

center of brain theory and the definition of intelligence.



Ironically, some of the pioneer s of artificial intelligence  had a notion of co mputers 
讽刺的
building a model of the world and using it to make predictions. In 1956, for 

example, D. M. Mackay argued that intelligent machines  should  have a n  "internal 

response mechanism" designed t o  " m a t ch  wh a t  i s r ecei v ed . " He di d n 't  use t h e  

words "memory" and "prediction" but he  wa s thinking along the s a me lines. 


Since the mid-1990s, terms such as  inference, generative models, and  predictio n 
					推理	生殖模型
have crept into t h e scientific nomenclature. They all refer to related ideas. As an  
					命名
example, in his 2001 book,  i of the vortex,  Ro d o lfo Ll in as, at th e New  Yo rk  

University School of Medicine, wrote, "The capacity to predict the outcome of 

future events― critical to successful movement― is, most likely, the ultimate and 

most common of all global  brain functions. " Scientist s such as David Mumf ord at 

Brown University, Rajesh Rao at the University of Washington, Stephen Grossberg 

at Boston University, and many more have written and theorized about th e role of 

feedback and predi ction i n  va rious ways. There is an entire subfield of 
								分区
mathematics devoted to Bayesian networks. Named after Thomas Bayes, an 
数学
Englis h minister born in 1702 who was a pioneer in statistics, Bayesian networks 

use probability theo ry to make  predictions. 

What has been lacking is putting these disparate bits and pieces into a coherent  
theoretical framework. This,  I argue, has not been done before,  and it  is t h e goal  
of this b ook. 



Before we get into detail about how the co rtex makes predictions, let's consider 

some additional examples. The more you  think about this idea, the more  you'll 

realize that prediction is pervasive an d the basis for how you understand the 

world. 



This morning I made pancakes. At one point in the process, I reached under the 

counter to open a cabinet door. I intuitively knew, without seeing, what I would  

feel― in this case, the cabinet doorknob―  an d whe n  I would feel it. I twisted the 

top of the milk container with the expect ation that it would  turn and then  come 

free. I turned on the  griddle expecting the  k n ob  t o p ush  i n  a   sl ig ht amount, then 

turn with a certain resistance. I expected to hear the gentle  fwoomp of th e gas 

flame about a second later. Every minute in the kitchen I  made do zens or 

hundreds of motions ,  and each  one involved many predictions. I know this 

because if any of those common motions  had had a different result from the 

expected one, I would have notic ed it. 

62


Every time  you put your foot down while  yo u are walking, y o ur brain predicts 

when your foot will stop moving and how much "give" the material  you step on will 

have. If you have ever missed a step on  a flight of stairs,  you know how quickly 

you realize  something is wr ong.  You l o wer your foot and the moment it "passes 

through" the anticipated stair tread you know you are in trouble. The foot doesn't  

feel anyt hi ng, b u t your brain m a de a prediction and the prediction  was no t m et.  A  

computer- driven ro bo t woul d blissfull y  fall over, not realizing that anythi ng was 

amiss, while you would know as soon as your foot continues for even a fraction of 

an i n ch bey o nd the  spot where your brain had expected it to stop. 



When you listen to a familiar melody, you hear the next note in your head before it 

occurs. When you listen to a favorite album,  you hear the beginni n g of each next 

song a couple of seconds before it starts . What's happe ning? Neurons in yo ur  brain  

that will fire when you hear that next note  fire in advance of your actually hearing 

it, and so you "hear" the song in your head. The neurons fire in response to 

memory. This memory can be surprisingly  long lasting. It is not uncommon to  

listen to an album of music for t h e first time in many years and still hear the next 

song automatically after the  previous s o ng has ended. And  it  creates a pleasant 

sensation of mild uncertainty when yo u listen to y o ur favorit e CD on ra ndom 

shuffle; you kn ow yo ur predictio n of t h e next song is wrong.




When listening to people speak, you often know what they're going to say before 

they've finished speaking―  or at least you think you  know! Sometimes we don't 

even listen to what the speaker actually says and instead hear what we expect to  

hear. (This happe ned to  me so  often when  I was a child that my mother twice  took 

m e t o  a  d o ct o r  t o  h a ve my  h ea r i n g  c h eck ed. )  Y o u  e x per i en ce t h i s i n  p a r t  b eca u se  

people tend to use common phrases or expressions in much of  their conversation. 

If I say, "How now brown…," your brai n will activate neurons that represent the 

word cow  before I say it (though if Engl ish  is not your native language, you may 

have no idea what I a m  talking ab out) . Of  c o urse, we don't k n ow all the time what  

others are going to say. Prediction is no t always exact .  Rather, our minds work by 

making probabilistic predictions  concerning what is about to happen. Sometimes 

we kn o w ex a ct l y  wh a t  i s go ing  t o  happen, other times our  expectations are 

distributed among several possibilities. If we were eating  at a table in a diner and I 

said, " p lease pass me the…," your  brain  would no t  be surprised if  I  next said, 

"salt," or "pepper," or "mustard." In  some sense your brain predicts all these 

possible outcomes at once. However, if I  said, "Please pass me the sidewalk," you 

would know something is wrong. 

63



Returning to music, we can see probabilistic prediction here as well. If you are 

listening to a song you have ne ver heard  before, you can still have fairly strong 

expectations. In Western music I expect a regular beat, I expect a repeated 

rhythm, I expect phrases to last the same number of measures, and I expect  

songs to end on the tonic pitch. You may not know what these terms mean , but― 
			主  音
assuming you have listened to similar music― your brain automatically predicts 

beats, repeated rhythms, completion of phrases, and ends of songs. If a new song 

violates these principles, you know immedi ately that something is wrong. Think 

about this for a second. You hear a song  that you have never heard before, your 

brain experiences a pattern  it has never experienced  befo re, and yet you make 

predictions  and can tell if something is wrong. The basis of these mostly 

unconscious predictions is th e set of memories that are st ored in your cortex. Your 

brain can't say exactly what will happen  next, but it nevertheless predicts which 

note patter n s are l i kely  to ha ppe n and whic h aren't.


We have all had th e experience of suddenly noti cing  that a source of constant 

background noise, such as a distant jack-hammer or droning Muzak, has just  

ceased― yet we hadn't noticed the sound while it was ongoin g. Your audit o ry  

areas were predicti ng its continuation, moment after m o ment, and as lo ng a s the 

noise didn't  change you paid  it no  heed. By ceasing, it violated yo u r p r ediction  an d 

attracted your attention. Here's a historical example .  Right after New York City 

stopped running elevated trains, people call ed the police in the middle of the night 

claiming that something woke them up. Th ey tended to call around the time the 

trains used to run pas t  their  apartments. 



We like to say that seeing is believing. Yet we see what we expect to see as often 

as we see what we really  see. One of the most fascinating examples of this has to 

do with what researchers call filling in. It may have been brough t to your attention 

before that you have a sma ll blind spot in each eye,  where your optic nerve exits 

each retina  through a hole called the optic  disk. You ha ve no phot oreceptors in this  

area, so you are permanently blind in the corresponding spot in your visual field. 

There are two reasons why you don't usually notice this , one mundane, the other 

instructive. The mundane reason is that your two blind spots don't overlap, so  one 

eye compensates  for t h e ot her. 



But interestingly, you still do n't notice your blind spot  when only one eye is open. 

Your visua l system "fills in" the missing information. When yo u close one eye and 

look at a ri chly woven Turk ish carpet or  t h e wavy co ntours of wood grain in a  

cherry tabletop, you don't see a hole. Entire nodes in the carpet,  whole dark knots 

in the woo d  grain are constantly  winking out of yo ur retina's view as your blind 

spot happens to cover them, but your experience is of a seamless stretch of  

textures and colors. Your visual cortex is drawing on memories of similar patterns 

and is mak ing a  co ntinuous  stream of  predictions  that fill in for  any missing input.



64


Filling in occurs in all parts of the visu al image, not just your  blind spot. For 

example, I show you a pictur e of a shore with a driftwood log lying on some rocks. 
					海冰			伐木
The boundary between the rocks and the log  is clear and obvious.  However, if we 
	边界
magnify the image, you will  see that the rocks and the  log are similar in texture 
										纹理
and color where they meet.  In the enlarged view, th e edge of the log isn't 
					放大
distinguishable from the rocks at a l l .  I f  we l ook  a t  t h e entire scene, the edge of the 

log is clear, but in reality we inferred the edge from the rest of  the image. When 

we look at the world, we perceive clean lines and boundaries  separating objects,  

but the raw data entering our ey es are ofte n noisy an d ambiguous. Our cortex fills 
	未加工的
in the missing or messy sections with what it thinks s h ould be th ere. We perceive  

an unambiguous image. 



Prediction in vision is also a function  of the  way your eyes move. In chapter 3, I 

mentioned saccades. About three times every second, your eyes fixate on one 

poin t, t h en suddenly jump to another po in t. Generally you are not aware of these 

movements,  and you don't normally consciously control them. And each time your 

eyes fixate on a new point, the pattern entering your  brain from the eyes changes  

completely from the last fixation. T hus, three times a second your brain sees 

something completely different . Saccades are not entirely random. When you look 

at a face your eyes typically fixate first on  one eye, then  o n  t h e ot her, goin g back 

and forth and occasionally fixating on the nose, mout h, ears, and ot her feat ures. 

You perceive just "face," but the eyes see ey e, eye, nose, mouth, eye, and so on. I 

realize it doesn't feel this way to you. What you're aware of is  a continuous view of 

the world,  but the raw data entering your   head are as jerky as  a badly wielded 

Camcorder. 



Now imagine that you met someone with an extra nose where an eye should be.  

Your eyes fixate first on  the one eye and then saccade to the second eye, but 

instead of seeing an eye you see a no se. You would definitely know that 

something was wrong .  For this to happen, your bra i n  has to hav e an expectation 

or prediction of what it is about to see. Wh en you predict  eye but see nose, the 

prediction is violated. So  several times a second, concurrent with every saccade, 
							并发的			眼跳跃
your brain makes a pr ediction about what it will see next. When that prediction is 

wrong, your attention is immedi ately arous ed. This is why we have difficulty not  

looking at people with deformities. If you saw a person with tw o noses, wouldn't 
			残缺
you have trouble not staring? Of course, if y o u li ved  with t h at  p erson ,  then aft er a 

period of time you wo uld get used to  two noses and not noti ce it as unusual 

anymore. 



Think about yourself right now. What predictions are you ma king? As you tu rn the  

pages of t h is book, yo u have expectations  that the pages bend a certain amount  

and move in pred ictable ways that are di fferent from the way the cover moves. If 

you are sitting, you are predicting that the feelings of pressure on your body will 

persist; but if the se at tur n ed wet, began drifting backward, or underwent any  

other unex p ected change, yo u would stop p a ying attention to th e boo k  and t r y to 

figu re out what is happening. If  you spen d some time observing yourself, you can 

begin to understand that yo ur perception of the world, your understanding of the  

world, is intimately ti ed to prediction.  Your brain has made a m o del of th e world 

and is constantly chec king th at mo del against reality. You know where you are and  

what you ar e doin g by  the validity  o f  t h is m o del.
				有效性


65


Prediction is not limited to patterns of lo w-level sensory information like seeing and 

hearing. U p  to now I' ve limited th e discussion to such examples because they are 

the easiest way to introduce this framework for understanding intelligence.  

However, according to Mountcastle's principle, what is true of low-level sensory 

areas must be true for all cortical areas. The human  brain is  more intelligent tha n  

that of other animals because it can make  predictions about more abstract kinds of 

patterns and longer temporal pattern sequences. To predict what my wife will say 

when she sees me, I must know what sh e  has said in the past, that today is 

Friday, tha t  the recycling bin  has to be  put on the curb  on Friday nights,  that I 

d i dn 't  do  i t on  t i m e l a st  week ,  an d  t h a t  her  f a ce ha s a c er t a i n  l o ok .  Wh en  s h e 

opens her mouth, I have a pretty strong pr ediction of what sh e will say. In this 

case, I don't know what the exact words will be, but I do know she will be 

reminding  me to take out the recycling.  The  important  point is that higher 

intelligence  is not a different kind of process from perceptual intelligence. It rests 

fundamentally  on th e same neocortical memory and prediction algorith m. 



Notice that our intelligence tests are in essence prediction tests. From kindergarten 

through college, I.Q.  tests are based on making pr edictions. Given a sequence of 

numbers, what shoul d  the next number be? Given three different views of a 

complex object, which of the following is al so a view of the object? Word A is to 

word B as word C is to what word? 


Science is i t self an exercise in prediction . We advance our k n owledge of th e world 

through a process of hypothesis and testing. This book is in essence a prediction 

about what intelligence is and how br ains work. Even product design is 

fundamentally a predictive  process. Whether designing  clothes or mobi le phones,  

designers and engine ers try to predict what competitors will do, what consumers 

will want , how much a new design will cost, and w h at fashions  will be in dem a nd. 


Intelligence is measured by the  capacity  to remember and predict patterns in the  
world, in cl udin g la nguage, mat h ematics, physical properties of objects, and social 
situations.  Your brain receives patterns from the outside world, stores them as 
memories, and makes predictions by combining what it has seen before and what 
is happening now. 

66


A t this point you might be thinking: "I accept that my  brain makes predictions and 

I can be intelligent just lying in the dark. As you point  out ,   I don't need to   act in 

order to understand o r  be in telligent. But ar en't situations like that the exception? 

Are you re ally ar guing that intelligent understanding and behavi or  are completely 

separate? In the end, isn't behavior, no t  prediction, what makes us intelligent? 

After all,  behavior is t h e ul timate  determine r  of survival ." 


This is a fa ir question and of course, in th e end, behavior is what matters most to 

the survival of an animal.  Prediction a n d behavior are  not completely separate, but  

their relationship is subtle. First, the neocortex appeared on the evolutionary scene 

after animals already evolved sophisticated  behaviors. Therefore, the survival value 

of the cortex must first be understood in terms of the incremental improvements it 

could bestow upon the animals' existing  behavi ors.  Behavior came first,  then 

intelligence . Second, most of wha t  we s en s e i s h ea v i ly  depende n t on what we do 

and how we move in the world. Therefor e prediction and behavior are closely 

related. Let's look  at these issues. 


Mammals evolved a large ne ocortex because it gave them some survival 

advantage, and such an advantage must ultimately be rooted in behavior. Bu t i n 

the beginning, the cortex served to make more efficient use of existing behaviors, 

not to create entirely new behaviors. To  make the case clear, we need to take a 

look at  how our brai ns evolved. 


Simple nervous systems emerged not long after multicellular creatures started 
			出现					生物
squiggling all over the Earth, hundre ds of millions of years ago, but the s t ory of 
蠕动
real intelligence begins more recently wi th our reptilian forebears. The reptiles  
						爬虫       祖先
were successful in their conquest of the land. They spread ov er every continent 

and diversified into numerous sp ecies. They had keen senses and well-developed 

brains that endowed them with complex behavior. Their direct descendants,  

today's surviving reptiles, still have them. An alligator, for example, has 

sophisticated senses just like you and me. It has well-developed eyes, ears, nose, 

mouth, and skin. It carries out complex  behaviors including the ability to swim, 

run,  hide,  hunt,  ambush, sun, ne st, and mate. 



What is the difference between a human  brain and a reptile brain? A lot and a 

little.  I say a little because, to  a rough  approximation, ever yt hing in a reptile's 

brain ex ists in a human brain. I say a  lo t because a human  bra i n has som ething 

really im portant that a reptile does not have: a large cortex. You sometimes hear 

people refer to the "old" brain or the "primitive" brain. Every human has these 

more ancient structures in  the  brain, just  like a reptile. They regulate blood  

pressure, hunger, sex, emotions, and ma ny aspects of movement. When you 

stand, bala nce, and w a lk, f o r example, y o u  are relying heavily on  the old brai n. I f  

you hear a frig htenin g sound, panic, and start  t o  r u n,  t ha t  i s mo st l y y o u r  o l d  b r a i n . 

You d o n't need more  than a re ptile bra i n  to do a  lot of interesting an d useful

things. So what does the neocor tex do if it isn't strictly required to see, hear, and 

move? 




67


Mammals are more intelligent tha n  reptiles  because of their neocor tex. (The word 

itself is derived from the Latin words for  "new bark" or "new rind," because the 

cortex literally covers the old bra i n.) The  neocortex first appear ed tens of millions 

of years a g o and onl y  mammals have  one. What makes humans smarter than 

other mammals is primarily the  large area of our neocortex― which expanded 

dramatically only a couple of  million years ago. Remember, the cortex is built using 

a common repeated element. The human cortical sheet is the sa me thickness and 

has very nearly the same structure as th e cortex in our mammal relatives. When 

evolution makes something big very quic kl y, as it did with human cortex, it does so 

by copying an existing structure. We got  smart by adding many more elements of 

a common cortical algorithm. There is a c o mmon misconception that th e human  

brain is the pinnacle of billions of  years of e v ol ution. Th is may be true if we think 

of the entire nervous system. However, the human  ne ocortex its elf is a relatively 

new structure and ha sn't b een around long  enough to undergo much long-term 
							经历
evolutionary  refinement. 
进化


H er e t h en  i s t h e c o r e o f  my  a r gu m en t   on how to understand t h e neocortex, and 

why memory and prediction ar e the keys to unlocking th e mystery of intelligence. 

We start with the reptilian brain with no co rt ex. Evolution discovers that if it tacks 

on a memory system (the neocortex) to the sensory path of the primitive brain, 

the anima l  gains a n  a b ility to predict the future. Imag ine th e ol d reptilian brain is 

still doing  its thing,  but now sensory pat erns are simultaneously fed into the 

neocortex.  The neoc ortex stores this senso ry  inf o rmatio n in  its memo ry .  At a 

future time when the anim al encounters the same or  a similar situation, the 

memory recognizes the input as similar and recalls what hap p ene d  i n  the past. The 

recalled memory is compared w i th the sensory input stream. It both " f ills in" the  

current input and pre d icts what will be seen  next. By comparing the actual sensory 

input with recalled memory, the  animal no t only understands where it is but can 

see into the future.



Now imagine that the cortex not only remembers what the animal has seen but 

also remembers the behaviors the old brai n performed when it was in a similar 

situation. We don't even have to assume the cortex knows the difference between  

sensations  and behavior; to the cortex th ey are both just patterns. When our 

animal finds itself in the same or a similar  situation, it not only  sees into the future 

but recalls which behaviors led to that futu re vision. Thus, memory and prediction 

allow an  a nimal t o  use its existing (old brai n)  beha viors more intelligently. 



For example, imagine  you're a rat learning to navigate a maze for the first time. 
						驾驶		迷宫
Aroused by uncertainty  or hunge r , you wil l   use the skills inherent to your old brain 
		不确定						固有的
to explore the new environment― listening,  looking, s n iffing, a nd creeping close to 
									爬行
the walls. All this sensory information is used by your  old brain but is also passed

up to your neocortex, where it is stored. At some future time, you fi nd yourself i n 

the same maze. Your neocortex will recognize the current input as  one it has seen 

before and recall the stored patterns representing what happened in the past. In 

essence, it allows you to see a short way into the future. If you were a talking rat, 

you might  say, "Oh, I  recogni z e  this maze,  and  I rememb er this  corner." As your 

neocortex recalls what happened in the past , you will  envision finding the cheese 

you saw last time you were in the maze, and how y o u got to it . "If  I t u rn  rig h t 

here, I know what will happen next. There's a piece of  cheese down at  the end of  

this hallway. I see it in my imagination. " When you scurry through the maze, you 

rely on older, primitive structures to carry  out movem ents like li ftin g  y ou r  feet an d  

sweeping your whiskers. With your (relat ive l y) big neocortex, you can remember 

the places you have been, recognize th em again in the future, and make 

predictions  about what  will happen next. A lizard without a neoc ortex has a much 

poorer ability to remember the past an d may have to search a maze anew every 

time. You (the rat) understand the worl d and th e immediate future because of 

your cortic al memory. You see vivid images of  the rewards and dangers that lie 

ahead of e a ch decision , and so y o u move more effectively through your world. You 

can literally see the future.


68


But notice  you are  not performing any particularly comp lex or fundamentally new 

behaviors. You are not build ing yourself a hang glider  and flying to the ch eese at 

the end  of  the hal lway. Your neocortex   is forming predicti ons about sensory 

patterns that allow you to see into the  future, but your palette of available 

behaviors is pretty much unaffected. Your  ability to  scurry, clam ber, and explore is 

still a lot like that of a lizard.


As the cortex got larger over evolutionary time, it was able to remember mor e and 

more about the world. It could form more  memories, and make more predictions. 

The complexity of those memories and pred ictions als o  increased. But something 

else remarkable happened that led to t he uniquely human ab ilities for intellige n t 

behavi or.



Human behavior transcends the old basic repertoire of moving around with ratlike 
		胜过			技能
skills. We have taken neocortical evolution to a new level. Only humans create 

written and spoken  lang uage.  Only  humans cook their food, sew clothes, fly 

planes, and build skyscrapers. Our motor and planning abilities vastly exceed those 

of our closest animal relatives. How can  the cortex, which was designed to make 

sensory predictions, generate the incredibly sophisticated behavior unique to 
			发生			复杂的
human s? A n d how could this superior be havior evolve so suddenly? There are two 

answers to  this question. One is that the neocortical algorithm is so powerful and 

flexible tha t  with a little bit  of rewiring, unique to humans, it can create new, 

sophisticated behaviors. The other answer is that be havior a n d pr edictio n  are two 

sides of the same thing. Although the cortex can envision the future, it can make 

accurate sensory predictions  only  if i t  k n ows what beha viors are being perfor med. 

In the simple example of  the rat looking for the cheese, the rat remembers the 

maze and uses this memory to predict  that it will see the cheese around the 

corner. But the rat could turn left or  turn right; only by simultaneously 

remembering the cheese and the correct behavior, "turn right at the fork," can the 

rat make the prediction of the cheese come true. Although this is  a trivial example, 

it gets to the essence of how sensory prediction and behavior are intimately  

related. All behavior c h anges what we see,  hear, and feel. Most of what we sense 

at any moment is highly dependent on our  own actions. Move your arm in front of 

your face. To predic t seeing your arm,  your cortex has to know that it has 

commanded  the arm to move. If the cortex saw your arm moving without the 

corresponding motor  command,  you woul d be surp rised. The simplest way to 

interpret this would be to assume  your br ain first moves the arm and then predicts 

what it will see. I believe this is wrong. Instead I belie ve the cortex predicts seeing  

the arm, and this  prediction is  what causes the motor commands to make the 

prediction come true. You  think first, wh ich causes you to act to make your 

thoughts come true. 

69


Now we want to look at th e changes that led to  human s having a greatly  

expanded behavioral repertoire. Are there  physical differences between a m o nkey's  

cortex and a human's cortex that can ex plain why only humans have lang uage and 

other com p lex beha vi ors? The human  bra i n  is about three times larger than the 

chimpanzee's. But there is more to it than "bi gger is better." A key to 

understand i ng the lea p  in human  behavior is found in the wiring between regions  

of cortex a n d parts of the o l d br ain.  Put most simply, our brains are conne cted up 

different ly. 



Let's take a closer look. Everyone is familiar with the brain's left and right

hemispheres. But there is another division that is  less well know n, and it is  where
半球
we need to look for human differences. All brains, especially large ones, divide the

cortex into a front half and a ba ck half. Scientists use the words anterior for th e

front and  posterior  f o r the bac k . Separating t h e fr on t and t h e back is a  large

fissure called the central sulcus. The back part o f  t h e co rtex contains the sections

where the eyes, ears, and touch inputs arrive. It is where sensory perception

largely occurs. The front part  contains regions of  cortex that are  involved  in high-

level planning and thought. It a l so contains the motor cortex,  the  section of brain

most responsible for moving muscles and therefore creating behavior. 


As the primate neocortex became larger over time, the anterior half got 

disproportionately larger, especially so in humans. Compared with  other primates 

and earl y hominids , we have enormous foreheads designed to contain our very 

large anterior cortex. But  this  enlargement alone is  n o t en oug h  to explain  the 

improvement in  our  motor ability as compared with that of other creatures. Our 

ability to make exceptionally complex movements stems from the fact that our 

motor cortex makes many more connectio ns with the muscles  in our bo dies. I n

other mammals, the front cortex plays a le ss direct role in mo to r beh av i o r.  Mo st 

animals rely largely on the older parts of the brain for generating their behavior. In  

contrast, the human cortex usurp ed most of the motor control from the rest of the 

brain. If  yo u damage the motor cortex of a  rat, the rat may not have notic eable  

deficits. If you dam a ge the motor cort ex of a human, he or she becomes 

paralyzed. 


70

People often ask me a b out dolphins. Do n't  they have huge brains? The answer is 

yes; a dolphin has a large neoco r tex. Dol phin cortex has a simpler structure (three 

layers versus our six ) than a human neoc ortex, but by any othe r measure it is 

large. It is  likely a dolphin can remember and understand lots  of things. It can 

recognize other individual dolphins. It pr obab ly has an excellent memory of its own 

life, in a n  autobiographical sense. It probably knows every nook a n d cranny of t h e 

ocean it's ever been to. Bu t a l though they  exhibit some sophisticated behavior, 

dolphins don't come close to our own. So  we can surmise their cortex has a less-

dominant  i n fl uence on  their  behavior. Th e po int is tha t  the cortex  evolved primarily 

to provide a memory of the worl d. An animal with a large cortex could perceive the 

world much  as yo u an d I do . B u t humans are uni que in the dominant, ad vanced 

role the cortex plays in our behavior. It  is why we have complex language and 

intricate tools whereas other animals don't.  It is why we can write novels, surf the 

Internet, s end probes to Ma rs, and build cruise ships. 


Now we  ca n see the entire picture. Nature first created animals such as reptiles 

with sophisticated senses and sophisticated but relatively rigid behaviors. It then 

discovered that by adding  a memory system and feeding the sensory stream into  

it, the animal could remember past experiences. When the animal found itself in 

the same or a similar situation, the memo ry would be recalled, lea d ing to a 

prediction of what was likely to happen  next. Thus, intelligence and understanding 

started as a memory system that fed predictions into the sen sory stream. These 

predictions  are the es sence of understandin g . T o kn ow so methin g  mean s th at you  

can make predictions a b out it . 



The cortex  evolved in two directions. First i t  got  large r and mo re sophisticat ed in 

the types  of memories it could store; it  wa s a b l e t o  r em em b er mo r e t h i n g s a nd 

make predictions based on more complex relationships. Second, it started 

interacting with the  motor system of the old brain. To  predict what you will  hear, 

see, and feel next, it needed to know what actions were being taken. With humans  

the cortex has taken over most of our  motor behavior. Instead of just making 

predictions  based on the behavior of the ol d brai n,  the human neocortex directs 

behavior to satisfy its predictions. 



The huma n cortex is particula r ly lar ge and therefore has a massive memory 

capacity. It is constantly predicting wh at you will see , hear, and feel, mostly in 

ways you are unconscious of. These predictions are our thoughts, and, when 

combined with sensory  input, they are our perceptions .  I call this view of the brain 

the  memory -prediction framework  of intelligence. 



If Searle's Chinese Room contained a si milar memory system that could make 

predictions  about what Chinese characters  would appear next and what would 

happe n next in the  story,  we could say wi th confidence that the room understood 

Chinese and understood the story. We ca n now see where Alan Turing went 

wrong. Prediction,  not  beha vior ,  is the proof  of i n telli gence. 




We are now ready to  delve into the details of this new idea of the memory-

prediction framework of the brain. To m a ke predict i ons of future events , your 

neocortex has to store sequences of pattern s. To recall the appropriate memories, 

it has to retrieve patterns by their sim ilarity to past patterns (auto-associative 

recall). And, fina lly, memories have to be  stored i n  an invariant form so that th e 

knowledge of past even ts can be applied to  new situatio ns that are similar but not 

identical  to the past.  How the physical cortex accomplishes these tasks, plus a 

fuller exploration of its  hierarchy, is  the s u bject of the next chapter. 








































