72


Trying to figure out how the brain works is  li ke solvin g a giant jigsaw puzzle. You 
									拼图
can approach it i n  one of two ways. Using t h e "top-d own" approa ch, you star t with 

the image of what the solved puzzle should look like, and use this to decide  which 

pieces to ignore and which  piec es to search for. The other approach is "bottom-

up," where you focus  on th e individual pieces themselves. You study them for 
				个体
unusual features and  look f o r close matches with other puzzle pieces. If yo u don't 

have a pic t ure of the puzzle's solution, the bottom-up method is sometimes the 

only  way to proceed.



The "understand-th e-brain" jigsaw puzzle is particularly  daunting. Lacking a good 
								使人气馁
framework for understanding intellige n ce, scientists have been forced to stick with 

the bottom-up approach. But the  task is Herculean, if not impossible, with a puzzle 
					困难的
as complex as the  brain. To get a sense of   the diffic ulty, imagine a jigsaw puzzle 

with several thousand pieces. Many of the pieces can be  interpreted multiple ways,  
							解释
as if each had an image on both sides but  only one of them is the right one. All the 

pieces are poorly shaped so you can't be ce rtain if two pieces fit together or not. 

Many of them will not be used in the ultimate solution , but you don't know which 

ones or how many. Every month new pieces arrive in the mail. Some of these new 

pieces replace older ones, as if the puzzle maker was sayi ng, "I know you've been 

working with these old puzzle pieces for a  few years,  but they turned out to be 

wrong. Sorry. Use these new ones instead unt il future notice." Unfortunately, you 

have no idea what the end result will look  like; worse, you may have some  ideas,  

but they are wrong.



This puzzle analogy is a pretty  go od descriptio n of th e difficulty  we face in cre a ting  

a new theory of the cortex and intelligence. The puzzle pieces  are the biological  

and behavioral data t h at scientists have collected for well over one hundred years. 

Each month new papers are published, creating additional  puzzle pieces. 

Sometimes the data from one scientist contradict the data from another. Because 

the data can be interpreted in differ ent ways, there is disagreement over 
		
practically everything. Without a top-down framework,  there is n o  consensus on 

what  to  l oo k  f o r,  wh a t  i s mo st  i m p o r t ant, or how to interpret the mounta i ns of 

information that have accrued. Our understanding of t h e brain has been stuck in 

the bottom-up approa ch. What we  need is a top-down framework. 



The memory-prediction model can pla y  t h is  role. It  can show us how t o start 

putting pieces of the puzzle together. To  make predictions, your cortex needs a 

way to memorize and store knowledge  about sequences of events. To make 

predictions  of novel events, the cortex must form invariant representations . Your  

brain needs to create and store a model of  the  world as it is, independe n t from  

how you see it under changing circumstances. Knowing wh at the cortex must do

guides us to understanding its architecture , especially its hierarchical design and 

six-layered form.


As we explore this new fram ework, presented here for the first time, I will get into 
					提出
a level of detail tha t  may be  challenging for some readers. Many of the concepts 

you are about to encounter are unfamiliar, even to experts in neuroscience. But 
		遭遇
with a bit of effort, I believe anyone  can learn the fundamentals of t his new 

framework. Chapters 7 and 8 of this book  are far less technical and explore the 

wider implications of th e theory .



Our puzzle - solvi n g journey can now turn to looking for biological detail s that 

support the memory-prediction  hypothesis; this is like  being able to set a side a  
				假设
large percentage of the puzzle pieces, kn owing that t h e relatively few remaining 

pieces are going to reveal the ultimate solution. Once we know what to look f o r, 
			现实
the task becomes manageable. 


At the same time, I want to stress that this  new framework is  incomplete. There 

are many things I don't yet understand. But there are many things I do, based on 

deductive reasoning, experiments carried out in many different laboratories, and 
演绎       推理							实验室
known anatomy. In the  last  five to  ten years, researche rs from many s u b-

specialties in neuroscience have been exploring ideas similar to mine, al th ough 

they use different terminology and have not, as far as I know, tried to put these 

ideas into  an overarching framework. They do talk about top- down and bott om-up 
		包罗万象的
processing, how patterns propagate through sensory regions  of  the brain, and how 
			传送
invariant representations might be important. For example, Gabriel Kreiman and 

Christof Koch, neuros cientists at Caltech,  with the neurosurgeon Itzhak Fr ied at 

UCLA, have found cells that fire whenever a person sees a picture of Bill Clinton. 

One of my goals is to explain how those Bill  Cli n to n cells come into being. Of 

course, all theories need to  make predictions that can be tested in the laboratory. 

I've suggested a number of these predictions in the appendix. No w that we know 
							附录
what to look fo r,  this  very complex  system won't look so complex  a n ymore. 


In the following sections of th is chapter, we will probe deeper and deeper into  how 
							探查
the memory -prediction model of the cortex  works. We will start with the large -

scale structure and large-scale function of the neocortex and work toward 

understanding the smaller pieces and  how they fit into  th e big pictu r e.



74


Earlier, I painted a picture of the cortex  a s a sheet of cells the size of a dinner 

napkin, as thick as six business cards,  where the connections between various  

regions give the whole thing a hierarchical structure. Now I want to draw another  

picture of the cortex that highlights its hierarchical connectivity. Imagine we cut up 
				突出
the dinner napkin  into separate functional regions―  sections of cortex  that 

specialize in certain tasks― and stack those regions on top of each other like 
专门从事
pancakes. If  yo u cut through this  stack and  view it from the side, you get figure 1. 
饼
The cortex doesn't actually  look like this, m i nd you,  but the image will help you 

visualize how the information is flowing. I have shown four cortical regions in 

which sensory input en ters at the bottom , the lowest region, and flows upward  

from region to  regi on. Notice information flows both  ways. 



Figure 1 represents the first four visual regions involved in the recognition of 

objects― how you come to see and recognize a cat, a cathedral, your mother , the 

Great Wall of China, you name it . Biologists label them  V1, V2, V4, and IT . Visual 

input represented by the up arrow at the bottom of  figure 1 originates i n  the 
		代表		箭头
retinas in both your eyes and  is relayed to V1. This input can be thought of as the 
				 传播
ever-changing  patterns carried on approximately one million axons, bundled 
					大约			轴突
together to form your optic nerve .  
			光学神经


We talked earlier about spatial and temporal patterns, but it is worth refreshing 

your memory because we will be referring to them here often. Recall that  your 

cortex is a big sheet of tissue that contains functional areas that specialize in 

certain tasks. These regions are connected  together by large bundles of axons or 

fibers that transfer information from one   region to another, all at once . At any 

point in time, some set of fibers will fire electrical pulses, again called action 

potentials or spikes, while othe rs will remain quiet. The collective activity on a 
电冲动
bundle of fibers is what is meant by pattern .  The pattern arriving at V1 ca n be 

spatial, as when your eyes fall for an insta nt on a n  ob ject, and temporal, as when 

your eyes move acros s the object. 



75


As noted earlier, about three times a second your eyes make a quick m o vement, 

called a saccade, and a stop, called a fixation . If a scientist were to fit you with a 

device that  tracks eye movements, you'd  be surprised to discover how jerky your 
									不平稳的
saccades are, given that you experience vision as continuous and stable. Figure 2a 
眼跳跃，眼急动，眼扫视
shows how one person's eyes moved while looking at a face. Notice how the 

fixations are not random.  Now imagine you co uld see th e pattern of activity 

arriving  a t V1 f r o m  t hi s p er so n 's e y es.   It c h anges completely with each saccade. 

Several times a second the visual cortex sees a completely new pattern. 


You might think, "OK, but it's still the same  face, just shifted." There is some truth 

to this, but not as much as you think.  The light receptors in your retina are 
							受体
unevenly distributed. They are densely concentrated in the fovea at the center, 
不均衡    分布			紧密的   集中			凹
and get gradually sparser out  in the periphery. In contrast, the cells in the cortex 
		逐步的  稀少的		外围		对比
are evenly distributed. The result is that the retinal image relayed onto the primary 
    均匀   分布							传播
visual area, V1, is highly distorted. When  your eyes fixate on the nose of a face 
			扭曲的
versus on an eye of the same face, the visual input is very differe n t, as though it is 

being viewed through a distorting fisheye lens that is jerking violently to and  fro. 

Yet when you see the face, it doesn't appear distorted, and it doesn't appear to be 

jumping around. Most of the time you aren 't even aware that the retinal pattern 

has changed at all, let alone so dramatically. You just see "face." (Figure 2b shows 

this effect on a view  of a beach landscape.) This is  a restatement of the mystery of 

invariant representation we talked abou t in chapter 4, on  memory. What you 

"perceive" is not what V1 sees. How does your  b r a i n  ever  know it  is l o o k in g  a t  t h e 
感觉
same face, and w h y don't you know the inputs are cha n gi ng and distorted? 



I f  we stick a  probe i n t o  V1 and watch  h ow individual  cells respond,  we f in d  t h a t  

any particular cell fires only in response to  visual input from a tiny part of your 
				只是回应	 视觉输入	微小的   部分
retina. This experiment has been  done many times and is a mainstay of vision 
								支柱
research. Each V1 neuron has a so-called receptive field that is highly specific to a  
					  善于接受的领域          	分化的
minute part of your total field of vision― that is, the whole world out there in front 
微小的
of your eyes. V1 cells seem  to have no  knowledge at all about the faces, cars, 

books, or other meaningful objects you see all the time; all they " k now" about is a 

tiny, pinhole-size portion of the visual world.
	小孔		部分


76

Each V1 cell is also  tuned for  specific kinds of input patterns . For instance, a 
	每一个			专门      种类的   输入
particular cell might fire vigorously when  it sees a line or an edge slanted at thirty  
									倾斜
degrees within its receptive field. That edge has little meaning in and of itself. It 
			易于接受
could be part of any object― a floor board,  the trunk of a distant palm tree, the 

side of a letter M, or any of seemingly infinite other possibilities .  With each new 

fixation, the cell's receptive  field comes to rest on a  new and entirely different 
						安置于
portion of visual space. On so me fixations the cell wil l  fire strongly , on others it will  
部分
fire weakl yor  not  at  a l l .  Thus each  time y ou  ma ke a  saccade,  many  cells in  V1 are  

likely to change their activity. 


However, something magical happens if   you stick a probe into the top region 

shown  in  figure 1 , region IT.  Here we find some cells that  become active and  stay 

active when entire objects appear anywhere  in the visual field. For example, we 

might find a cell that fires robustly whenever a face is  visible. This cell stays active 
			强烈激活的
as long as  your eyes  are looking at a face anywhere in your field of vision. It  

d o esn 't  s wi t ch  o n  a nd off  wi t h  e a ch  s a ccade as do  the c ells in  V1.  This IT cell 's  

receptive field covers most of the visual  space and is tuned to fire when it sees 

faces. 


Let's recast the mystery. In the course of  spanning four  cortical stages from retina 

to IT , cells have changed from  being rapidly changing, spatially specific, tiny-
	细胞种类变化	从	快速改变	  空间的专门细胞
feature recognition cells, to  being constantly firing, spatially nonspecific, object 
小特征识别                 到							对象识别
recognition cells. The IT cell tells  us we  are seeing a face somewhere in our field 

of view. This cell, com m only called a face  ce ll, will fire no matter whether the face 

is tilted, rotated, or partially occluded. It  is part of an invariant representation for 

"face." 



Writing these words makes it  seem so simple. Four quick stages and, voila  , we 

recognize a face. No  computer program or mathematical formula has solved this 

problem with anywhere near  the robustness and generality of a human brain. Yet 

we know the brain solves it in a few steps,  so the answer can't be that difficult. 

One of the  primary goals of th is  chapter is to explain how  a face cell, Bill Clinton's 

or otherwise, comes about .  We will get ther e, but we have to cover a lot of other 

ground first.


Take another look at figure 1. You can see t h at information als o  flows from higher 

to lower regions via a network of feedback connections. These are bundles of 

axons that go from higher regions like IT to lower regions like V4, V2, and V1. 

Moreover, there are as many （if not more） f eedback connections in visual cortex as 
而且
there are feedforward connections. 

77


For many years most scientists ignored  these feedback connections. If your 

understanding of the brain focused on how the cortex took input, processed it, and 

then acted on it, you didn't need feed back. All you needed were feedforward 

connections leading from sensory to motor sections of the cortex. But when you 

begin to r ealize that the cortex's core function is to make predictions, then you 

have to put feedback into  the model; the brain has   to send information flowing 

back toward the region that first receives the inputs. Prediction requires a 

comparison between what is happening and what you expect to happen. What is 

actually happening flows up, and  what  you expect to happen flows down. 



The same feedforwardCfeedback  process is  occurring in all your cortical areas 

involving all your senses. Figu re 3 shows our visual pancake stack alongside similar 
				
stacks for hearing and touch. It also sh ows a few higher cortical regions, the 

association areas, that receive and integrate inputs from a number of different 
			接受        整合
senses― such as hearing plus touch plus vision. While figure 1 is  based on known 

connectivity between four  known regions of  cortex, figure 3 is a purely conceptual 
									纯粹的 概念上
diagram, with no attempt to capture actual cortical regions. In a real human brain 

dozens of cortical regions are interconnected in all sorts of ways. In fact, the 

majority o f  the human cortex  consists of association areas. The cartoon 

characterization shown here and in subsequent figures is meant to hel p  yo u 
描述				后来的
understand what is goi n g on without  misleading you in any significant way. 


The transformation― from fast changing  to slow changing an d fr om spatial l y 

specific to spatially invariant― is well documented for vision. And although there is 
						文档化的
a smaller body of evidence to prove it, ma ny neuroscientists believ e you'd find the  
		证据
same thing happenin g in all the sensory areas of your co rtex, not just in vision. 



Take hearing. When s o meone speaks to  you, the changes in sound pressure occur 

very rapidly; the patterns entering the  primary auditory area, ca lled A1, c h ange 

just as rapidly.  Yet if  we could poke a probe higher up into yo ur auditory stream, 

we would find invariant cells that respond to words or even, in some cases,  

phrases. Your auditory cortex might have a group of cells  that fire when you hear 

"thank  yo u," and an ot her gr oup  of cells  that fire for the phrase "good morning." 

Such cells would stay active  for the whole length of an utterance, assuming that 

you recognize the phrase. 



78


Patterns received by the first  a u di t o r y  a r ea  c a n  v a r y  wid el y .  A  wo rd  c a n  b e s p o k en 

with different accents, in different pitches,  or at different speeds. But higher up in  

the cortex, those low - level features don't  matter; a word is a word regardless of 

the acoustic details. The same thing goes for music . You can hear "Three Blind  
	声学
Mice" played on the piano, on the clarinet, or sung by a child, and your A1 region 

receives a completely different pattern in each case. But a  probe stuck into a 

higher auditory region should find cells that fire steadily every time "Three Blind 

Mice" is being played , without  concern for  the instrument, tempo, or  other details. 

This particular experiment has not been done, of course, since it's too invasive to 

performon  humans,  but, if you accept that there must be a common cortical  

algorithm, you can be sure  such cells exist. We see the same kind of feedback,  

prediction, and invariant recall in auditory  cortex as we saw in the visual system.


Finally, touch should  behave the same way. Again, the  definitive experiments have 

not been done, although research is under way using monkeys  in high-resolution 

brain-imaging machines. As I sit  here writing, I ha ve a  pen in  my  hand . I touch the 

pen's cap and my finger caresses its m etal  pocket clip. The patterns entering my 

somatosensory cortex from the touch sensors  in my skin are changing rapidly as 

my fingers move, yet I perceive a constant pen. At one moment I might flex the 

metal clip with my fingers, the next moment I  d o s o  wit h  a  d if f erent set of fingers, 

or even with my lips.  These are  very different inputs, arriving at different location s 

in the primary somatosensory cortex. Howe ver, our probe would once again find 

cells in regions several steps removed  from the primary input that respond 

invaria n tl y  to "pen." Th ey would  stay active while I fondled th e pen and wouldn't  

care exactly which fingers or parts  of  my  body I used to  touch it. 



Think of t h is. With  hearing and touch  you can't recognize an object with a  

momentary input. The pattern coming from  your ears or the touch sensors in your 

skin does not contain sufficient information at any one po int in time to tell you 
			足够的
what you are hearing or feeling. When you perceive a series of a u ditory patterns  

such as a  melody, a spoken word, or a slamming door , and when  y o u perceive a 

tactile object  s u ch  a s a  p en ,  t h e o n ly  wa y  t o  d o s o  i s b y  u si n g t h e f l o w o f  i n pu t  

over time.  You can't  recognize  a melody  by hearing one not e, and y ou can't 

recognize the feel of a pen with one touch. Theref ore the neural activity  

corresponding to the mental perception of objects, such as spoken words, must 

last longer  in time than the in dividual in put patterns. This is just another way of 

reaching the same conclusion that the higher up in the cortex y o u go, the fewer 

changes over time you should see. 

79


Vision is also a time-based input stream and work s in  the  same general way as 

hearing and touch, b u t because we have the ability to  recognize individual  objects 

with a single fixation, it confuses the picture. Indeed , this ability to recognize  
				是困惑
spatial patterns during a brief fixation has for many years misled researchers who  
			简短的					带错方向
work on machine and animal vision. They have generally ignored the critical nature 
									决定性的
of time. While humans can, under laboratory conditio ns, be made to recognize  
				实验室
objects without  moving their   eye s, this is not the norm.  Normal vision, such as you  
						
reading this book, requires constant eye movement. 

Integrating the Senses
整合



What about the association areas? So far, we have seen how info rm ation f l ows up 

and  down a particular sensory area of  cortex. The downward  flow fills in t h e 
							向下
current input and makes predictions about  wh at we will experience next. The s a me 

process occurs between senses― that is, between sight, sound, and touc h. For 

example, s o mething I hear can lead to a prediction of what I should see or feel. 

Right now I am writing i n  my bedroom.  Our family cat, Keo, has a collar that 

jingles as she walks. I hear her jingle  approaching from the hallway. From this 

auditory input I recognize my cat, turn  my head toward the hallway, and in walks 

Keo. I expected to see her based on her sound. If Keo hadn't walked in, or another 

animal had appeared, I would have been s urprised. In this exam p l e,  an  au d i to ry 

input first created an audito ry r ecognit ion of Keo. The  info rmatio n flowed up th e 

auditory hierarchy to an association area  that connects vision with hearing. The 

representation then flowed ba ck down the auditory and vi su al hierarchies, leading 

to both auditor y  a n d visual pred ictions. Figure 4 illustra t es this. 


This kind of multisensory prediction is occurring all th e  time. I bend out the clip on 

my pen, I feel the clip slip from my fingers, and I expect to hear a snapping sound 

as the clip hits the barrel of the pen. If  I didn't hear the snap following the release 

of the clip, I would be surprised. My brain predicts pr ecisely when I will hear the 

sound and what it wil l be like. For this prediction to happen, information flowed up 

the somatosensory c o rtex and flowed ba ck  down bo th the  somatosensory and 

audito ry  co rtex leading to  a  predi ction of  he aring an d feeling a snap. 



Another example: I ride my bicycle to  work several days a week. On those 

mornin gs I  go in to  my  garage , pick up my bicycle, t urn it around, and roll it out 

into the driveway. In the process of doin g so, I receive many visu al, tactile, and 
	车道
audito ry inputs. The bicycle hits the doorjamb, the chain rattles, a pedal hits my 

leg, and the wheel spins as it rubs the floor. In the process of carrying my bicycle 

out of t h e garage, my brai n encounters   a barrage of si ght,  sound, a nd to uch 
				遭遇
sensations. Each sensory in put stream makes predictions for the others  in an 

amazingly coordinated way. Things I see lead to precise predictions about things I 

will feel and hear , and the other way arou nd. Seeing th e bicy cle hit the doorjamb 

makes me expect to hear a particular sound and feel the bicycle bounce upward. 

Feeling the pedal hit my leg prompts me to look down and predic t to see the pedal 

right where I felt it. The predictions are so precise that I would notice if any of  

these inputs were even slight ly uncoordinated or unus ual.  The information 

simultaneously flows up an d down the sensory hierarchies to create a unified 

sensory experience involving prediction in all senses. 







80


Try this experiment. Get up from reading and do so methin g, any activity that 

involves m o vi ng your bod y  a n d manipulating an  o b ject .  Fo r example, go t o  a sink 
					操纵						下沉
a n d  t u r n  on  t h e faucet .  No w,  as y o u  do   this, try to notice  every sound, touch 
				旋塞
sensation, and changing visual  input. You will have to concentrate. Each action is 

intimately tied to sights, sounds, and to uch sensations.  Lift  or turn the faucet lever 

and your brain expects to feel  pressure  on your skin and resistance in your 

muscles. You expect to see  and feel the lever move, an d you expect to see and 

hear the w a ter. As the water hits the sink, you expect to hear a different so und 

and to see and feel the splash. 



Every footstep makes a sound, wh ich you  always anticipate, whether consciously 

or not. Eve n  the simple act of holding this book leads to many sensory predictions. 

Imagine if you felt and heard the book close but visually it stayed open. You would  

be shocked and confused. As we saw with the altered door thought experiment in 

chapter 5, you make  constant predictio ns about the  world that are coordinated 

across all your senses. When  I concentrate on all the little sensations, I am  

amazed at how fully integrated our perceptual predictions are. Although these 

predictions  may seem simple or trivial, bear in mind how pervasive they are and 

how the y  c a n on ly  co me abou t by massive coordination of patterns streaming up 

and down the cortical hierarchy.



81



Once you understand how interconnected the senses are, you are drawn to 

con cl ud e that the enti re n eo co r tex,  all  the sensory and association areas, acts as 

one. Yes, we have a visual cortex, but  it is just one component of a single, 

overarching sensory system― sights, s ounds, to uch, and m o re combin ed, a l l 

flowing up and down a single  multibranched  hierarchy . 



A further point :  All pr edictions are learned by experience. We expect pen clips to 

make snapping sounds in the present and future because they have done so in the 

past. Bicycles banging in garages  look, feel, and sound to us in predictable ways. 

You were not born  with any of this kn owledge; you learned it thanks  to the 

incredibly large capacity of  your cortex for remember ing patterns. If there are 

consistent patterns am ong th e inputs flowin g into your brain, your cortex will use 

them to pr edict future events. 


Althou gh figures 3 and 4 do not depict  the  motor cor t ex, you ca n ima g ine it as  
				描述
another hier archical stack of pancakes, just like a sens o ry stack, connected to the  

sensory systems via association areas (altho ugh with more intimate connections to 

the somatosensory cortex for car r ying out body movements). In this fashion, the 

motor cortex behaves in almost the same way as a sensory region. An input in any 

sensory area can flow up  to an association area, wh ich can lead t o  a pattern 

flowing do wn the motor cortex , resu ltin g in  beh a v io r . Ju st as a visual input can 

lead to patterns flowin g down th e audito ry  and touch parts of the cortex, it can  

also lead to a pattern flowing down the motor section  of cortex. In the  former 

case, we interpret these downward-flowing patterns as predictions. In the motor 

cortex we interpret them as mo tor comm ands. As Mountcastle pointed out, t h e 

motor cortex looks like the sensory cortex. Therefore, the way the cortex 

processes downward-flowing sensory predic tions is s i milar to  how it processes 

downward-flowing motor comma nds.


We will see shortly that there are no pure sensory or pure motor areas in the 

cortex. Sensory patterns simultaneously flow in anyw here and everywhere― and 

then flow back down any area of the hi er archy, leading to  pre d ictions or motor 

behavior. Although the motor co rtex has some special attributes, it is correct to  

t h i nk  of  it as j u st  pa r t  of  one large hierarchical memory-prediction system. It's 

almost like another sense. Seeing, hearing, t o uching, an d acti ng are profoundly  

intertwined. 

A New View of V1

The next step in untangling the  architecture of the co rtex requires looking at the 
			解开
cortical regions in a new way. We know  the higher regions of cortical hierarchy 

form invariant representations.  But why s hould this important function only occur 

at the top? With Mountcastle's notion of  symmetry in the back of my mind, I 
				对称性     见解
started to explore the different ways  cortical regions might be connected. 




82


Figure 1 portrays the  four classic region s of the visual path way, V1, V2, V4, and 
	描绘
IT, with V 1 at the bottom of the stack overlain by V2, V4, and, at the to p,  IT. 
					在。。上面
Conventionally,  each  is considered  and shown as a single, continuous region .  Thus 
照惯例								连续的
all V1 cells supposedly do similar things, although with different parts of the visual 

field. All of V2's cells are  doing the same kind of task . A ll V4 cells are similarly 

specialized. 


In this traditional view, when the image of a face enters the V1 region, the cells 

therein create a rough sketch of the face in terms of simple line segments and 
在其中		粗糙的  描述
other elementary features. The sketch is handed  up to V2. Then V2 does its own 

thing with the image , making a slightly more sophisticated analysis of the facial 

features, and passes that up to V4, and so  on. Invariance, and the recognition of 
						不变性
the object, is only achieved when  the input r each es the top, IT. 
			取得的


Unfortunately, there are some problems with this  view of early cortical regions like  

V1, V2, and V4. Again, why should invariant representations only  show up in IT? If 

all cortical regions perform the same  function, why s h ould IT be  special?



Seco n d ,  a  face can  appea r  on  t he lef t  sid e o f  your V 1 or  o n  the right side of your  

V1 and yo u would recogniz e it.  But experiments clearly show that nonadjacent 
									不相邻的
patches of V1 are not directly connected; th e left side of V1 can't know directly 
补丁
what the right side is seeing. Step back and think about  this . Different parts of V1 

are obviousl y doing something similar since they all can participate in recognizing a 

face, but at the same time they are physically independent. Subregions or clusters  
								子区域
of V1 are physically  disconnected but do the  same thing.
		身体上  不相连的


Finally, experiments show that all higher regions of cortex receive converging  

inputs from two or more sensory region s below themselves ( f igure 3). In real 

brains,  a dozen region s can converge on  an  association area. B u t in  traditional 
				聚合
renderings, lower sensory regions like V1,  V2, and V4 appear to have a different 
描述
kind of connectivity.  Each looks as though  it  has but one source of  input ―  only 
							仅仅
one arrow flowing up from the  bottom― with no  obvious convergence of inp u ts 
								聚合
from different regions.  V2 got its input from  V1 and that was it. Why shoul d  some 

cortical regions receive converging inp u t an d others not?  This, too, is inconsistent  

with Mount castle's idea of  a comm on c o rtic al al gorithm. 



For these and other reasons I ha ve come to believe that  V1, V2, and V4 should not 

be viewed as single cortical regions. Rath er, each is a collection of many smaller 

subregions. Let's go back to  the dinner napkin analogy―  a flattened version of the 

entire cortex. Let's say we were to use a  pen to mark all the functional regions of 

the cortex on our cortical napkin. The largest region by far is V1, the primary visual 

area. Next  would be V2. They are huge compared to most regions. What I am 

suggesting is that V1  should actually be considered as  many very small regions. 

Instead of one big area of the napkin,  we would draw many small areas that 

together would occupy the  area normally  assigned to V1. In  other words,  V1 is 

made up of numerous separate little cortical areas that are only  connected to their 

neighbors indirectly, through  regions higher up in the hi erarchy. V1 would have the 

largest number of small subregions of any visual area. V2 woul d also be composed 

of fewer, slightly larger subregions. The sa me would be true of V4. But by t h e time  


you get to the top region, IT, yo u really wo uld have a  single region, which is wh y  

IT cells have a bird's-eye view of the entire visu al world. 



83


There is a pleasing symmetry here. Take a look at figure  5, which shows the same 
			对称性
hierarchy as figure 3,  except it shows the sensory hierarchies as I just described. 

Note that now the cortex looks similar everywhere. Pick any region and you will  

find many  lo wer region s prov id ing converging sensory input. The receiving region 

sends projections back to its input region s telling them  what patterns they should 

expect to see next. Higher association areas unite information from multiple senses 

such as vision and touch. A lower region like a subregion of V2 unites the 

information from separate subr egions within V1. A region doesn't  know― indeed it 

can't know ― what any of those inputs mean . A V2 subregion doesn't need to know 

that it is handling visual  input  from multiple parts of V1. A n  association area 

d o esn 't  n eed  t o  k no w t h a t  i t  i s h a n d li n g   input from  vision and hear ing. Rathe r , the 

jo b  o f  a n y   co r t i ca l  r eg i o n  i s t o  f ind  o u t   how its inputs are related, to memorize the 

sequence of correlations between them, an d to use this memory to predict how 
		关连
the inputs  will behave in th e futu re. C o rtex is cortex. The same process is 

happe ning everywhere: a common cortical algorithm .  



This new hierarchical depiction helps us understand the process of creating 

invariant representations. Let' s look more closely at how  it works in vi sion. At the 

first level of processing, the left  side of visual space is different from the right side 

of visu al space in the same way that hear ing is di fferent from se eing. Left V1 and 

right V1 form the sa me kind of representations only  because they have been 
				呈现
exposed to similar patterns in life. Like  hearing and seeing, they can be viewed as 
暴露
separate sensory streams, which get united higher up. 

84


Similarly, t h e small regions with in V2  and V4 are association areas of vision.  

(Subregions may overlap, but this would not fundamentally change the way these 
		重复
regions work.) Interpreting the visual cortex this   way does not contradict or 
									否定
change anything we know about its anatomy. Information flows up and do wn all 

branches of the hierarchical memory tree. A  pattern  in  th e left  visua l  field  can lead  

to a  prediction in the right  visual field in exactly the sa me way that my cat's bell 

can lead to a visual pr ediction  that she is  entering my bedroom. 


The most important result of this new depiction of the cortical hierarchy is that 

now we can say each and every region of cortex forms invariant representations. 

In the old way of thinking, we didn't  have complete invariant representations― 

such as faces― until inputs reached the top la yer, IT, which  sees the whole visual 

world. Now we can say that invariant representations are ubiquitous. Invariant 

representations are formed in every cortical  region. Invariance  isn't something that 

only  magica lly a ppears when we get t o  higher regions  of the  cortex, such as IT. 

Every region forms invariant representations drawn from the input areas 

hierarchically below it . Thus the  subregions of V4, V2, and V1 create invariant 

representations based on what  flows into th em. They  may only s ee a tiny part of 

the world, and the vocabulary of sensory objects they deal  with  is more basic,  but 

they are performing the same job as IT.  Also, association regions above IT form  

invariant representations of patterns from  multiple senses. Thus all regions of 

cortex form invariant representations  of the world underneath them in the 

hierarchy. There is beauty in this. 


Our puzzle has shifted. We no longer ha ve to ask how invariant representations 

are formed in four steps from bottom to top.  R a t h er we h a v e t o  a sk  h o w i n va r i a nt 

representations are formed in  every single cortical region. This makes perfect  

sense if we take the existence of a comm on cortical algori thm  seriously. If one 

region stores sequences of patterns, every region stores sequences. If one region 

creates invariant representations, all regions create invariant representations .  

Redrawing the cortical hierarchy along  the lines shown in figure 5 makes this 

interpretation possible .  


A Model of the World



You can thin k abou t th e world, move around  in the world, and make predictions of 

the future because your cortex has built a model of the world. One of the most 

importa n t concepts in this book  is that  the cortex's hierarchical structure stores a  

model of the hierarchical structure of the real world. The real world's nested 
									嵌套
structure is  mirrored by the nested structure of your cortex. 
		反射


What do I mean by a nested or hierarchical structure?  Think about music .  Notes 

are combined to form intervals. Intervals are combined to form melodic phrases.  
			间隔					有旋律的     句子
Phrases are combined to form melodies  or songs. Songs are combined into 

albums. Think about written la nguage. Letters are combined   to form syllables. 
					字母				音节
Syllables are combined to fo rm words. Words are combined to form clauses and 

sentences. Looking at it the other way ar ound, th in k about your  neighborhood. It 

probably contains roads, schools,  and houses. Houses have rooms. Each room has 

walls, a ceiling, a floor, a door, and one  or more windows. Each of these is  

composed of smaller object s. Windows are made of gl ass, frames, latches, and 

screens. Latches are made fr om smaller pa rts like  screws. 


85

Take a moment to look up at  your surroundings. Patterns from the retina entering  

your primary visual  cortex are being combined to form line segments. Line 

segments combine to form more complex shapes. These complex shapes are 

combining to form objects like noses. Noses are combining wi th eyes and mouths  

to form faces. And faces are combining with other body parts to form the person 

who is  sitti ng in the  room across  from  y o u.  


All objects in your world are composed  of subobjects that occur consistently 

together; that is the  very definition of an object. When we assign a name to 

something, we do so because a set of features consistently travels together. A face 

is a face precisely because two eyes, a no se, and a mouth always appear together. 

An eye is an eye precisely because a pupil, an iris, an eyelid, and so  on , always  

appear together. The same can be said  for chairs, cars, trees, parks, and 

countries. And,  fi nall y,  a song is a song beca use a series of intervals always appear 

together in sequence. 


In this way the world is like a song. Every object in the world is composed of a

collection of smaller objects, and most objects are part of larger objects. This is

what I mean by nested structure. Once you are awar e of it, you can see nested

structures everywhere. In an exactly analogous way, your memories of things and

the way your brain represents them are stored in the hierarchic al structure of the

cortex. Your memory  of your home does not exist in one region  of cortex. It is

stored over a hierarchy of cortical regions that reflect the hierarchical structure of

the home. Large-scale relationships are stored at the top of the hierarchy and

small-scale relationships are  stored toward the bottom. 


The design of the cortex and the method by which it learns naturally discover the 

hierarchical relationships  in the world. You are not  born  wit h  kn owledge of 

language, houses, or music. The cortex  has a clever learning algorithm that 

naturally finds whatever hierarchical  structure exist s and captures it. When 

structure is  absent, w e are throw n  into confusion, even chaos. 



You can only experience a subset of the world at a n y mome nt in time. You can 

only  be in one room of your home, lo okin g in  one direction.  Because of the  

hierarchy of the cortex, you are able to know that you are at home, in your living 

room, lookin g at a window, e v en though  at  that mo ment your eyes happen to be 

fixated  on a wind ow latch.  High er  re gions of cortex  are maintain in g  a 

representation of your home, while lower  regions are representing rooms, and still 

lower regions are look ing at a window. Simi larly, t h e hi erarchy allows you to know 

you are listening to both a song and an album of music , even though at any point 

in time you are hearing only one note, whic h on its own tells you next to not h ing. 

It allows y o u to k n ow you are with your  best friend, even  though your eyes are 

momentaril y fixated o n  her hand . Higher re gions of your cortex are keeping track 

of the big picture while lower areas are actively dealing with the fast-changing, 

small deta ils. 


86


Since we can only touch, hear, and see a very small part of the world at any 

moment in time, information flowing into the brain naturally arrives as a sequence 

of patterns. The cortex wants to learn those sequences that occur over and over 

again. In some cases, such as melodies,  a sequence of patterns comes in a rigid 

order, the order of the intervals. Most of  us are familia r with that kind of sequence.  

But I am going to use the word  sequence in a more general way, closer in 

meaning to the mathematical term  set.  A sequence is a set  of patterns that 

generally accompany each other but not always in a  fixed order. What is important 
         通常一起出现的组合，但不一定以一定的顺序
is that patterns of a sequence follow one  another  in  time even  i f  not in a  f i x ed  

order. 



Some examples should make this clear. When I look at your face, the sequence of 

input patterns I see i s not fixed but is determined by my saccades. One time I 

m i g h t fi xate i n  the order "e ye eye nose mouth," and a moment later fixate in the 

order "mouth eye nos e eye." The components of a face  are a sequence. They are 

statistically related and tend to occur together in time, although the order may 

vary. I f  you perceive "face" while fixating on "nose," the likel y next patterns would  

be "eye" or "mouth" but not "pen" or "car." 



Each region of cortex sees a stream of such  patterns. If the patterns are related in 

such a way that the region  can learn to predict what  pattern will occur next, the 

cortical region forms a persistent representation, or memory, for the sequence. 

Learning sequences is the most basic ingredient for  forming invari ant 

representations of real-world objects. 



Real-world objects can be concrete, li ke a lizard, a face, or  a door, or  they can be  

abstract, like a word or a theory. The brain treats abstract and concrete objects in 
									实体
the same way. They are both just sequences of patterns that oc cur together over  

time in a predictable fashion. The fact th at certain input patterns  repeat time and 

again is what lets a cortic al region know th at those experiences are caused by a 

real object in t h e worl d. 



Predictability is the very definition of reality. If a region of cortex finds it can 

reliably and predictably move among these input patterns using a series of physical 

motions (such as saccades of the eyes or fondling with the fingers) and can pr edict 
						爱抚
them accurately as they unfold in time  (suc h as the sounds c o mprising a song or a  
			展开
spoken word), the brain interprets these as having a causal relationship. The odds  
			解释				因果			几率
of numerous input patterns occurring in the same relation  over and over again by 
	许多
sheer coincidence are vanishingly small.  A predictable sequence of patterns must 
绝对的  巧合
be part of a larger object that really exists. So reliable predictabilit y is an ironclad 

wa y  of  kno wi n g  t h a t di f f er en t  ev en t s i n   the world are physically tied together. 

Every face has eyes,  ears, mo uth, and  nose. If the brain sees an eye, then 

saccades an d sees an other eye, then sacc ades and sees a mo uth, it can feel 

certain it is  seeing a face. 


If cortical regions could speak they mi ght say, "I experience many different 

patterns. Sometimes I can't predict what pattern I will see next. But these patterns 

are definit ely related to one another.   They always occur together, and I can 

reliably jump between them. So whenever I see any of these events, I will refer to 

them by a common name. It is this gro u p  name, not the individual patterns, that I 

will pass on t o  higher regions of the cortex." 


Therefore, the brain c a n be said to store sequences of sequences. Each region of  

the cortex learns sequences, develops  what I call "names" for th e sequences it  

knows, and passes these names to the next regions higher in the co rtical 

hierarchy. 

Sequence s of Sequ ences  


As information moves up from primary sensory regions to higher levels, we see 

fewer and fewer changes over time. In primary visual areas like V1, the set of 

active cells is changing rapidly as new patterns fall on the retina s everal times each 

second. In visual area IT, cell firing patterns are more stable. What is happening 

here? Each region of c o rtex has a repertoire of sequences it knows, analogous to a 

repertoire of songs. Regions store these songlike sequences about anything and 

everything: the sound  of surf crashing on   the beach, your mother 's face, the path 

from your home to the corner store, ho w to spell the word  "popcorn," how to 

shuffle a deck of cards. 


We have names for songs,  and in a similar  fashion each cortical region has a name 

for each sequence it knows. This "name" is  a group of cells whose collective firing  

represents the set of objects in the sequenc e. (Never mind for now how that group 

of cells is selected to represent the sequence; we will get to this later.) These cells 

remain active as long as the sequence is  playing, and it is this "name" that is 

passed up to the next region in the hierarchy. As long  as the input patterns are 

part of a predictable s equence, the region presents a constant "name" to the next 

higher regi on. 



88

It's as if the region were saying, "Her e is the name of the sequence that I am 

hearing,  seeing, or touching. You do n't need to know about the individual notes, 

edges, or t exture. I w ill let you know if  something new  or unpredicted happens." 

More specifically, we can imagine region I T  at th e to p  of  the visual hierarchy 

relaying to an association area above it , "I am seeing a fac e. Yes, with each 
传递
saccade the eyes are  fixating on different parts of the face; I am seeing different 

parts of the face in succession. But it is still the same face. I will let you know 

when I see something else." In  this fashion, a predictable sequence of events gets 

identified with a "name"― a  constant patt ern of cell fi ring. This happens o v er and  

over again as we go up the hierarchical pyramid. One region  might  recognize a  
					金字塔
sequence of sounds that comprise phonemes (the so unds t ha t ma k e up  wo r d s)  

and passes a pattern representing the phoneme up to the next region. The next 

higher region recognizes sequences of phon emes to cr eate words. The next hig h er 

region recognizes sequences of  words to create phras es,  and so on. Bear in mind 

that a "sequence" in the lowest regions of  cortex may be fairly simple, such as a 

visual edge moving through space. 



By collapsing predictable sequences into "named objects" at ea ch region in our  
	塌陷
hierarchy, we achieve more and more stability the higher we go. This creates 

invariant representations. 



The opposite effect happens as a pattern moves back  down the hierarchy: stable 

patterns get "unfolded" into sequences. Let's assume you memorized the 

Gettysburg Address when you were in th e seventh grade and  now you want to 

recite it .  In a  language region  high  up  in  you r  cortex ,  there is a  s t o r ed  p a t t ern  t h a t  
背诵
represents Lincoln's famous speech. First, this pattern is  unfolded into a memory 

of the sequence of phrases. In  the next region down, each  phrase is unfolded into  

a memory of the sequence of words. At this  point ,  the unfolding pattern splits and 

travels down both  the auditory  section of cortex and the motor section of cortex. 

Following the motor path, each word is unfolded into a memorized sequence of 

phonemes. And in the final, bottom region, each phoneme is  unfolded into a  

sequence of muscle commands to make  sounds.  The lower you look in the 

hierarchy, the faster the patterns are changing. A single, co nsta nt pat t ern at the 

top of your motor hierarchy eventually leads to a complex and lengthy seque nce of 

speech sounds. 


Invariance also works to our advantage as  this information flows back down the 

hierarchy. If you want to type the Gettysburg Address instead of speak it, you start 

out with the same pattern at the top of  your hierarchy. The pattern is unfolded 

into phrases in the next region down. The phrases are  unfolded into words in the  

region below that. So far there is no di fference between speaking and typing the 

Gettysburg Address. But at the next le vel down, your motor cortex takes a 

different  path. Wor d s are unfolded into  letters, and the letters  are unf olde d into 

muscle commands to your finge r s for typi ng. "Four score and seven years ago our 

fathers brought forth…" The memories of  the words are handled as invariant 

representations; it doesn't matter whether you will speak, type, or handwrite them. 

Notice you don't have  to memorize the speech twice, once for speaking and once 

for writing. A single memory of the speec h can take  vario u s be havi oral fo rm s. In 

any re gion, an invariant pattern can bifurcate and follow a different path down. 


89


In a complementary bit of efficiency, representations  of simple objects a t  the 
	补足的			效率
bottom of the hierarchy can be reused over and over for di fferent high-level 
				再生的
sequences. For instance, we don't have to learn one set of words for the 

Gettysburg Address an d a completely different  set for Martin Luther King's "I Have 

a Dream" speech, even though the two orat ions contain some of the same words. 

A hierarchy of nested sequences allows  the sharing and reuse of lower-level 

objects― words, phonemes, an d letters being but a  few examples. It is a 

remarkably efficient way to  store information ab ou t t h e world and  its structure and 

very d i fferent fr om ho w compute r s work. 



The same unfolding of sequences occurs  in the sensory as  well as the motor 

regions.  The process allows you to perceive and understand objects from different 

views. If you are walking up to your refrigerator to get some ice cream, your visual 
					冰箱
cortex is active on mu ltiple levels. At a  higher level,  y o u are perceiving a constant  
									感知
"refrigerator." In lower regions, this visual expectation is  broken do wn into a s eries 

of more localized visual inputs. Seeing the refrigerator is composed of fixations on 

the door handle, the ice dispenser, the magnets on th e door, a child's drawing,  

and so forth. In t h e few milliseconds t h at  elapse as you saccade from one feature 
				毫秒		消逝
of your refrigerator to  another,  predictions about the result of each saccade are 

cascading  down your visual hierarchy. As  long as these predictions get confirmed 

saccade after saccade, your higher visual  regions remain satisfied that you are in  

fact looking at your r efrigerator. Note that  in th is cas e, unlike th e fixed order of 

words in the Gettysburg Address, the sequence you see when looking at the 

refrigerator is not fixe d; the fl ow of in puts and retrieved memory patterns depend 

on yo ur o wn actions.  So in a case like thi s, the unfoldi ng patte rn is not a  rigid 

sequence, but the end result is the sa me: slow-changin g,  high-l evel p a tterns  

unfoldi ng i n to  faster-chang ing,  low-level pat t erns. 



The way you memorize sequences and represent them by name as information 

goes up and d o wn yo ur cortical  hierarchy may remind y o u of the hierarchy of 

military command. The top army  general says , "Move  the troops  to Florida for t h e 
军事的
winter." This simple high-level c o mmand gets unfolde d in to  ever more deta ile d 

sequences of commands as it percolates  down the hierarchy. The general's 

underlings recognize that  the command requires a seque nce of steps such as 
党羽
preparations to leave, transportation to Flor ida, and preparations  for arrival. Each  

of these steps breaks down into further, more specific steps, to  be carried out by 

subordinates. At the bottom  there are thousands of privates  taking te ns of 

thousa nds of actions that r esult in the troops moving. Reports of what happened 

are generated at each level. As  they pe rcolate back up the  hierarchy, they are 

summarized again and again, until at the  very top of the hierarchy, the general 

receives a daily briefing saying, "Move to  Florida goin g ok ay." The gener a l does  

n o t get al l  the details.  

90


There is an exception to this rule. If so methin g goes wrong that cannot  be ha ndled 

by subordinates down the ch ain of command, then th e i ssue rises up the hierarchy 

until someone knows what to do next. Th e officer who does know how to handle 

the situation does not see it as an exception. What was an unanticipated problem 
								意料之外的
to subordinates is just the expected next task on his list. The  officer then issues 
	部署
new commands to subordinates. The neocortex behaves similarly. As we will see in 

a bit, when events (in ot her words, patterns) occur that aren't anticipated, 

information about them progresses up the c o rtical hierarchy until some region can 

handle it. If lower regions of cortex fail to predict what patterns  they are seeing, 

they consider this an erro r and pass the error up the hi erarchy. This is repeated 

until some  region does anticipate the patter n . 

By design, every cortical region attempts  to store and recall sequences. But this is 
still too simp le a description of the brain.  We need to a dd a few mo re complexities 
into the  model. 



The bottom-up inputs to a region of cort ex are input patterns carried on thousands 

or millions of axons. These axons come fr om different regions and contain all sorts 

of patterns .  The number of possible patterns that can exist on even one thousand 

axons is  lar g er tha n  the number of molecules in the universe. A regi on wil l  onl y see 
					分子
a tiny fraction of these possi ble patterns in a lifetime. 



So here's a question: When a single  region stores sequences, what are they  

sequences of? The answer is that a region first classifies its inputs as one of a 

limited number of possibilities, and then looks for sequences. Im agine that you are 

a single c o rtical region. Your  t a sk is  to  sort colored pieces of paper. You are 

supplied ten buckets, each of which is labele d with a sample color swatch. There is 
		桶
one bucket for green, one for yellow, another for red,  and so on. You are  then 

given pieces of col o red pa per, o n e by one, a n d  told  t o  s o r t  t h em  b y  c ol o r.  E a ch 

paper you receive is slightly different. Because there are an infinite number of 

colors in the world, you never get two pieces of paper with exactly the same color. 

Sometimes it is easy to say what bucket the  colored pa per should  be placed in , but 

sometimes it is difficult. A paper that is  halfway between red and orange could go 

in either bucket, but  you have to assign it to one  bucket, eithe r  red or orange, 

even if the selection comes down to a random pick. (The point of t h is exercise is to 

show that the brain must classify patterns.  Regions of cortex do this, but there is  

nothing equivalent to  a buck et to put patterns in.)


Now you are given the additional task of looking for s equences.  You notice that 
red-red-green-purp le-o range- green occurs frequently . You call  it th e "r rgpog"
sequence. Notice that recognizing any seq uence would be impossible if you hadn't  
first classified each piece of paper. Withou t first classifyi n g each pie ce of paper  into  
one of ten categories,  you couldn't  say that two sequences are the same. 


91


So now you are up  a n d runnin g.  Yo u are goi ng  to look at all th e inp u t pa tterns― 

the colored pieces of paper co ming in from lower cortical regions― classify them, 

and then look for sequences. Both steps, classificati on and sequence formation, 

are necessary to create invariant representa tions, and each region of cortex does 

them. 


The process of forming sequences pays off  when an input is ambiguous, like a 
								模糊不清的
piece of paper that falls somewhere betw een red and orange. Yo u have to pick a 

bucket for the paper even if  you're not sure  if it's more red or mo re orange . If  you 

know the most likely sequence for this series of inputs,  you will  use this knowledge  

to decide how to  cla ssify t h e a m biguou s in put. If yo u believe yo u are in  t h e 

"rrgpog" sequence because you have just  gotten two reds, a green, and a pur p le, 

you're going to expect that the next paper will be orange. But the next piece of 

paper arriv es and it's not oran ge. Rather , it is an odd color somewhere between 

red and orange. It mi ght even  be a li ttle more red than ora n ge. But you are 

familiar wit h  and expe cting t h e "rrgpog"  sequence, and so you pla ce the paper in 

the orange bucket. You use  the co ntext of known sequenc es to resolve ambiguity. 


We see this phenomenon happ ening all the time in our everyday experiences. 

When people speak, their individual words very ofte n cannot be understo o d out o f 

context. Yet when y o u hear an am bigu ou s  word in a sentence, yo u  don't get hung 

up on the word's ambig u ity.  Yo u understa nd it. Simi la rly, handwritten wo rds are 

often unintelligible out of context , but very r eadable wit h in a full written sentence. 

Most of the time you aren't aware that  you are filling in ambi guous or incomplete 

information from your  memories of seque nces. You hear what yo u expect to hea r 

and see what you expect to see― at least  when what you hear and see fits into 

past experience. 



Notice the memory of sequences allows you not only to resolve ambiguity in the 

current input, but als o  to predict which input should  happ en next. While your 

cortical self is sorting colored pa pers, yo u can tell the "input" person passing the 

papers to you, "Hey, in case you are havi ng any troubl e deciding what to pass me 

next, it should , accord ing to my memory, be an ora nge one." B y  recogni z in g a 

sequence of patterns ,  a c o rtical region wi ll predict  its  next in put pattern an d tell 

the regi on below what to expect.  


A region of cortex not  only learns familiar sequences, it also learns how to m o dify 

its classifications .  Let's say you start ou t with a set of buc k ets labeled "green," 

"yellow," "red," "purple," and "orange." You are prepared to recognize the "rr gpo g" 

sequence as well as other combinations of these colors. But what if a color makes 

a major shift? What if ever y time you see the "rrgpog" sequence, the purple is way 

off-kilter? The new color is  more like indigo. So you change t h e purp le bucket to 
	不顺利
be the "indigo" bucket. No w the bu ckets better fit what you see; you have reduced 

the ambiguity. The  cor t ex is flex ible.


92
In cortical  regions, bottom-up cla ssifica tions and top-down sequences are 
constantly interacting, changing througho ut your life. This is the essence of 
learning. In fact, all regions of the cortex  are plastic, thus they ca n be modified by 
experience. Forming new classifications  an d new sequences is how you rem ember 
the world. 


Last, let's look at how these classification s and predictions inte ract with the next 

higher region. Another part of your cortical job is  to relay t h e name of the 

sequence you are seeing to the next level up , so you pass up a piece of paper with 

the letters "rrgpog" on it.  These letters mean little in themselves to the next higher 

region; the  name is just a pattern to be combined wit h  other inputs, classified, and 

then put into yet a higher-order sequence.  Like yo u, he is keeping track of the 

sequences he is seeing. At some  point he might say to yo u, "Hey, in case you are 

havi ng an y trouble d eciding  what to pa ss  me next, according to  my mem o ry, I 

predict it s h ould be the 'yyrgy'  sequence." This  is  basically a n  instruction  to you  

about what  to look for  in yo ur own input stream. You will  do your best to interpret 

what you s ee as compri sing that sequence.


Since many peop le have hear d the term   pattern classification used in AI and 

machine vision research, let' s look at how this process as it is usually understood 

differs f rom  wh a t  the co r t ex  is doin g.  In trying  t o  get  machines to  r eco g ni z e 

objects, researchers typically create a template― say the image  of a cup, or some 

prototypical form  o f  c u p― and then in struct  the machine to match its  inputs with 

the protot ypical cup. If it finds a close  match, the comp uter will say it has found a 

cup.  But our brains don't  ha ve templates like that, and the  patterns tha t  each 

cortical region receives as input aren't like  pictures. Yo u do n' t remember snapshots 

of what your retina sees, or snapshots of  the patterns from your cochlea or your 

skin. The hierarchy of the co rtex ensures that memories  of objects are distributed 
										分布式的
over the hierarchy; they aren't located in a single spot. Also, because each region 

of the hierarchy forms invarian t memories, what a typical region of cortex learns is 

sequences of invariant representations,  which are themselves sequences of 

invaria n t m emories. You won't fi nd a pict ur e  of a cup or any other object stored in 

your  brai n.  


Unlike a camera's memory, your brain remembers th e world as it is, not as it 

appears. When you think about t h e worl d, you are recalling seque nces of patterns 

that correspond to the way the objects in  the world are and how  they behave, not 

how they a ppear th ro ugh any particular  sense at any point in  time. The sequences 

by which y o u experien ce objects in the world reflect the invariant structure of the 

world itself. The order in which you experien ce parts of the world is determined by 

the world's structure. For example,  you  ca n get onto an airplane directly by 

walking down a jetway,  but not from t h e  ticket counter. The sequences by which 

you experience the world  is  the real structure of the world, and that is what the 

cortex wants to remember. 


93

Don't forget, though, an inva riant representation in any re gion of the cortex can be 
turned into a detailed prediction of  how it will appear on your senses by  
propagating the pattern down  the hierarchy. Similarly,  an invariant representation 
in the motor cortex can be  t u rned int o detailed and  situation-specific motor 
commands by pro p aga t ing the pa ttern down the motor hierarchy. 

What a Region of Cortex Look s Like  



We are now going to turn our attention to an individual  region of cortex,  one of 

the boxes in figure 5. Figure 6 shows such  a region of cortex in more detail. My 

goal  is to  show you how the cells in a region of  cortex can learn and recall 

sequences of patterns ,  which is the most  essential element for forming invariant 
						基本的
representations and making predictions. We will start with a description of wh at a 

cortical region looks like, and how it is put together. Cortical regions vary greatly in 

size, the largest being the primary sensory  areas. V1, for example, is roughly the 

size of a passport in terms of the space it  occupies at the back of the brain. But as 

I argued earlier, it is actually composed  of many smaller regions that might be the 

size of t h e  letters on t h is page. For now, let' s assume that a typica l cortical area is 

the size of a small coin. 


Think of the six bus i ness cards I mentio ned in chapter 3, where each card 

represents a different layer of cortical tissue. Why do we say there are layers? If 

you ta ke our coin-siz e region o f  cortex and place it under a microscope, yo u'll see 

that the density and shape  of the cells vary as you  move from top to bottom. 

These differences define the laye rs. The top, called layer 1, is the most distinct of 

the six layers. It has very few cells, consisting primarily of  a mat of axon s running 
					主要组成    由   一些  无光泽的    轴突
parallel to the cortical surface. Layers  2 and 3 lo ok similar. Th ey  contain many 
平行在       皮层表面
tightly packed pyramidal cells. Layer 4 has  a type of star-shaped  cell. Layer 5 has  
紧密    包在      角锥型				星型
regular pyramidal cells as well as a class o f  extra-big pyramid-shaped cells. The 
有规律的 角锥型
bottom layer, layer 6, also has several types of unique neurons. 
					一些形状独特的


94


Visually we see horizontal layers, but most often scientists talk about columns of 

cells that run perpendicular to the layers. You can th ink of c o lum n s as  being 
		垂直
vertical "units" of cells that work together. (The term column invites much debate 

in the neuroscience community. Their size , function, and importance are disputed. 

For our purposes, though, you can thin k in general terms of a columnar 

architecture, which everyone agrees exists .) The layers within  each column are 

connected via axons that run up and down, making synapses along the way. 

Colum n s do not stand out like neat little pillars with clear boundaries― nothing in 
								边界
the cortex is that simple― but their exis tence can be inferred from several lines of  

evidence. 


One reason is that the vertically aligned cells in each column tend  to beco m e  
			垂直对齐的	细胞 		每列
active for the same stimulus. If we looked closely at columns in V1, we'd find some 
活跃           同样的刺激
that respond to line segments that tilt in one directio n (/) and some that respond  

to line segments that  tilt in anot her direction (\). The cells within each column are 

strongly  co nnected,  which is why the entire column responds to the same stimulus. 

Specifically, an active cell in layer 4 causes cells above it in layers 3 and 2 to 

become active, which then cause cells below in layers 5 and 6 to  become active. 

Activity spr eads up and down with in a column of cells . 



Another reason we t a lk of columns stems from how  the cortex forms. In an  

embryo, single precursor cells migrate fr om an inner brain cavity to where the 

cortex takes shape. Each of these cells  divides to create about one hundred 

neuron s, called a microcolumn, which are connected in the vertical fashion I just 

described. The term co l u mn is often used loosely to de scribe different phenomena; 

it can refer to general vertical connectivity  or to specific groups of cells from the 

same progenitor. Using the latter defi nition, we can say that th e human cortex  has  

an estimated several hundred million microcolumns. 


To help you vis u alize this colum n ar struct ure, imagine  a single mi crocolumn is the 

width of  a human  hair. Take th ousands of  hairs and cut them into very short 

segments― say, the height of a lowercase i  without the dot. Line up all thes e hairs 

or column s and glue them side by side like a very dense brush. Then create a 

sheet of long, extra-thin hairs― representing your layer 1 axons― and glue them 

horizontally across the top of the mat of short hair s. This br ushlik e mat is a 

simplistic model of your coin-size cortical  region. Information flows mostly in the 

direction of these hairs: horizontally in layer 1 and vertically in layers 2 through 6. 





95


There's one more detail about co lumns you  need to know, and then we'll move on 

to what they're good for.  On close inspection, we see that at least 90 percent of 

the synaps es on cells within each column come from places outside the column  

itself. Some connectio ns arrive from neighboring columns. Others come from 

halfway across the brain. How, then, can  we speak of columns  as being important 

when so m u ch of our  cortical wiring is spread out laterally over large areas? 



The answer is in the memory-prediction model. In 1979, when  Vernon Mountcastle 

argued that there is a single  c o rtical algorithm,  he als o proposed that the cortical 

column is th e basic unit of computation in the cortex . However,  he d i d not know  

what funct i on a column performs. I believe that a column is the basic unit of 

prediction. For a column to predict when it should be active, it needs to know what 

is going on elsewhere― hence the synaptic connections from hit her and  yon.  


We'll get into more details soon , but here's a preview of  why we need this sort of 

wiring in t h e brain. To pr edict the next note of a song , you need to know the 

song's name, where y o u are in the song, how much time has passed since th e last 

note, and what that last note was. The large number  of synapses connecting cells  

in a colum n  to other parts of the brain  provide each column  with the context it  

needs in order to predic t its activity in ma ny different situations. 


The next thing we need to consider is  how these coin-size cortical regions (and  

their columns) send and rece ive information up and down the c o rtical hierarchy. 

We'll look at  the upward flow first,  which takes a relatively direct route, depicted in 

figure 7. Imagine we're looking at a cortic a l  r eg i o n  wi th  i t s t h ousands of columns. 

We zoom in on just one. Conver ging inputs from lower regions always arrive at 

layer 4― the main input layer. In passing , they also f o rm a connection i n  layer 6 

(we'll see later why this is important). Layer 4 cells t h en send  projections  up to 
									预测
cells in layers 2 and 3 within their column . When a column projects information up, 

many layer 2 and layer 3 cells send axons to the input layer of that next higher 

region. T h us info rmatio n flows from region to  region up the hierarchy. 



Information flowing down the cortical hierarchy takes a less direct path, as 

depicted  in figu re 8 .  L a y er  6  cells are the downward-projecting output cells from a  
描述
cortical column and project to  layer 1 in  the regions hierarchically below. Here in 

layer 1, the axon spreads over long distances in the lower cortical region. Thus 

information flowing down the hierarchy from one column has the potential to 
								潜能
activate many columns in the regions below  it. There are very few cells in layer 1,  

but cells in layers 2, 3, and 5 have dendrites in layer 1, so these cells can be 
					描述
excited by the feedback running all across layer 1. The  axons coming from layers 2 

and 3 cells form synapses in layer 5 as they leave the cortex and are believed to  

excite cells in layers 5 and 6. So we can say that as information flows down  the 

hierarchy, it  has a less direct route. It can branch in many different directions via  

the spread on layer 1. Feedback information starts in a layer 6 cell in the higher 
			说明l6是高级的细胞（区域）
region; it spreads across layer 1 in the lower region. Some cells in layers 2, 3, and 

5 in the lower region are excited, and some of these excite layer 6 cells, which  

project to layer 1 in regions hierarchically below, and s o  on. (I f you study figure 8, 

the process is much easier to follow.)

96


One final bit of anatomy: wh en axons leave layer 6 to travel to other destinations, 

they are encased in a white fatty substance called myelin. This so-called white 
	包围			脂肪  实质	脊髓质
matter is like the insulation on an  electrical  wire in your house. It helps prevent 
		   绝缘
signals from  getting mixed up a n d makes them travel faster, at speeds up to two 

hundred miles per hour. When axons leave the white matter, they enter a new 

cortical column at layer 6. 


Before I describe the details, I want  to remind you of the auto-associative 

memories discussed in chapter 2. As you may recall, auto-associative memories 

can be us ed to store sequences of patterns. When the output of a gr oup of 

artificial neurons is fedback to form the input to a l l t h e neur ons ,  and a delay is  

added to the feedback, then patterns learn to follow  each other in sequence. I 

believe the cortex uses the same basic  mechanism to store sequences, although 

with a few extra twists. Instead of forming an auto-associative memory out o f 

artificial neurons,  it is forming an auto-associative memory out of cortical columns. 

The output of all the  columns  is fedbac k  to layer 1 .   In this  way,  l a yer 1 contains 

information about w h ich columns were ju st active in the region of cortex. 


98


Let's walk through the elements, as shown in  fi gure 9. It has been known f o r many 

years that  particularly large layer 5 cells within your motor cortex (region M1) 

make direct contact with your muscles and the motor regions of y o u r  spinal cord .  
									脊髓
These cells literally drive your muscles and make you move. Whenever you speak, 
		逐字的
type, or perform any sophisticated behavior, these cell s are firing on and off in a 

high ly  coordinate d way, maki ng your muscl es contract.



Recently, researchers have discovered that large layer 5 cells may play a role in 

behavior in other  part s of th e cortex, not   just in motor regions.  F o r example ,  large 

layer 5 cells in visual  cortex proj ect to  the  part of the  brain  that moves the eyes. 

So the sensory visual areas  of cortex, such as V2 and  V4, not only process visual 

input, but they help determine the movement of  the eyes themselves, and 

therefore what you s ee. Large layer 5 cells  are seen throughout  the neocortex, in 

every region, suggesting a  more widespread role in  all kinds of m o vement. 


In addition to having  a behavioral role, the axons of these large layer 5 cells split 

in two. One branch goes to  th e part of  the  brain called  the thalamus, shown as the 

round object in fi gure 9. The human thalamus is the shape and size of two small 

bird eggs. It sits in the very center of the brain, o n  top of t h e old brai n, and is 

surrounded by white matter and cortex. Th e thalamus receives many axons from 

every part of the cortex and sends axons back to thos e same areas. Many of the 

details of these connections are known, bu t the thalamus itself is a complicated 

structure and its role is not at all clear. But the thalamus is essential to normal 

livin g; a  da maged th al amus leads  to a persistent ve getative state.





99


There are a couple of paths from the thalamus to the cortex, but only one is of 

interest to us now. This path starts with  the large layer 5 cells that project to a 

class of thalamic cells considered nonspecific. The nonspecific cells project axons 

back t o  layer 1 over many diff er ent regions of c o rtex. For example, layer 5 cells 

throughout the V2 and V4 regions send axo n s to  the th al amu s, and the thalamus 

sends the information back to layer 1 th roughout V2 and  V4. Other parts of t h e 

cortex do the same; layer 5 cells throughout  multiple c o rtical regions pr oject to the 

thalamus, which sends the information  back to  layer 1 of those same and 

associated regions.  I propose this circuit is exactly like the delayed feedback that 

lets auto-associative memory  models learn sequences. 


I have no w mentioned two inpu ts to la yer 1. Higher regions of cortex s p read 

activity acr o ss layer 1 in lower r egions.  Ac tive columns within a  region also spread 

activity across layer 1 in the same region via the thalamus. We can think of these 

inputs to layer 1 as the name of a song (input from above) and where we are in a 

song (delayed activity from active columns in the same region). Thus layer 1 

carries much of the information we need to pred ict wh en a column should be 


active― the sequence name and where we  are within the sequence. Using these 

two signals  in layer 1, a region of  cortex can  learn and recall multiple sequences of 

patterns. 


How a Region of Cortex Works: The Details 


With these three circuits in  mind― converging patterns going up the cortical 
hierarchy, diverging pattern s going down the cortical hierarchy, and a delayed 
feedback through the thalamus ― we can start to see how a region of cortex  
performs the functions it needs. What we want to know is:


1.  
How does a regio n  of co rtex classify its inpu ts (like the buckets)? 
2.  
How does it learn sequences of patterns (such as intervals of a melody, or  
the "eye nose eye" of a face)? 
3.  
How does i t  form  a constant pattern or "name" for a sequence? 
4.  
How does it make specific predictions ( meeting the train at the  right time, 
or predicting the specific note in a melody)? 


100


Let's start by assuming that the  columns in a region of  cortex are like the buckets 

we used in classifying our colored paper inputs. Each column represents the label  

of a bucket. The layer 4 cells in every column receive input fibers from several 

regions below it and will fire if they have  t h e right combination of inputs. When a 

layer 4 cell fires, it is "voting" that the input fits its label. As in t h e paper-so rting 

analogy, inputs can be ambiguous, so several columns might be possible matches 

for the input. We want our  regi on of cortex to decide  on one interpretation; the 

paper is either red or  orange, but not both .  A co lu mn with stron g  input sh o uld 

prevent other columns from firing. 



Brains have inhibitory cells that do just  this . They  strongly  inhibit other neurons in 
		抑制
a neighborhood of cortex, effectively allowing one winner. These inhibitory cells 

only affect the area surrounding a column. So even  though there is a lot of 

inhibit i on, many columns in a region can  still be active at once.(In real brains, 

nothing is ever represented by a single neuron or a single column.) To make it 

easier to follow, you can pretend that a region picks one  and  only one winner 

column. But in th e ba ck of your mind, re member that many columns will be active  

at once. The actual process used  by a region of cortex to classify inputs and how it 

learns to do this is complicated, and not we ll understood.  I will not attempt to dra g  

you through the issues. Instead I want to  assume that our region of cortex has 

classified its input as  activity in a set  of columns. We ca n then focus on the 

forming of sequences an d names for sequences. 



How does our cortical region store the sequence of these classified patterns? I 

have already suggested an answer to this question, but now I'll delve into more  

details. Imagine you are a column of cells , and input from a lower region causes 

one of your layer 4 cells to fire. You are  happy, and your layer 4 cell causes cells in 

layers 2 and 3, then 5, and  then 6 also to fire. The entire column becomes active 

wh en  d r i v en  f r o m  b elo w.  Y o u r  c el l s i n  l a y er s 2 ,  3 ,  a n d  5  e a ch  h a v e t h o u san d s o f  

synapses in layer 1. If some of these synapses are active when your layer 2, 3,  

and 5 cells fire, the synapses are strengthened. If this occurs often enough, these 

layer 1 synapses become strong  enough to make the c ells in layers 2, 3, and 5 fire 

even when a layer 4 cell hasn't fired―  meaning parts of the column can become  

active without receiving input from a lower r eg i o n  o f  t h e c o r t ex .  I n  t hi s wa y ,  c el l s 

in layers 2, 3, and 5 learn to "anticipate" when they should  fire based on the 
				预期
p a ttern in lay er 1.  Bef o re learn i ng,  the co lumn can  o nly  b ecome active if  d r iv en b y 

a layer 4 cell. After learning, t h e column can become partially active via memory. 

When a column becomes active via layer 1 synapses, it is  anticipating being driven 

from below.  This is pr ediction. If the column could speak, it would say, "When I 

have been active in the past, this particular set of my layer 1 synapses has been 

active. So when I see this partic ular set  again, I will fire in anticipation." 



101


Recall that  half of the input to  layer 1  comes from layer 5 cells in neighboring 

columns and regions of the cortex. This information represents what was 

happening moments before. It  represents columns that were active prior to your 
									优先
column  becoming active. It represents the  previous interval in the melody, or the 

last thing I saw, or the last thing I felt ,  or the previous phoneme in the speech I 

am listening to. If the order in which these patterns oc cur  over time is consistent, 

then the c o lum n s will learn the order. They will fire one after an other in  proper 

sequence. 


The other half of the  input to layer 1 comes from layer 6 cells in hierarchically 

higher regions. This information is more stationary. It represents the name of the 

sequence you are currently experiencing. If  your  column s are musi c interva l s, it is  

the name of the melody. If your column s are phonemes, then it is the spoken 

word you are hearing. If  yo ur columns are spoken word s, then the signal from  

above is the speech yo u are reciting. Thus  the information in layer 1 represents 

both the name of a sequence and the last  item in the sequence. In this way, a 

particular c o lum n  can be shared among ma ny different sequences without g etting 

confused. Columns learn to fire in the right context  and in the correct order. 



Before moving on, I need to  point out that the synapse s in layer 1 are not the only 

synapses that participate in learning when a column  should bec o me active. As I 

mentioned earlier, cells receive input from, and send in pu t to , m a ny surroundin g 

columns .  Recall that more than 90 percent of all syna pses are from cells outside 

the column, and most of th ese synapses are not in layer 1. For example, cells in 

layers 2,3, and 5 have thousands of syna pses in layer 1, but also thousands of 

synapses in their own layers. The overall id ea is that cells want any information 

that will he lp them pr edict wh en they will be driven fr om below .  Usually, act i vity in 

nearby columns has a strong correlation,  and so we see many direct connections  

to nearby co lumns. For example, if a li ne is moving t h ro ugh  your  visual field, it will 

activate successive co lumns. Often, thou gh, the information needed to predict a 

column's activity is more global, which is where the laye r 1 synapses play a role. If 

you were a cell or a  column, you woul dn't  know what any of these synapses 

meant, all you would know is that they help you predict when you should become 

active. 

102



N ow let us consider the issue of how a  region of cortex forms a name for a 

learned sequence. Again, imagine you are a  region of cortex. Your active c o lum n s 

are changing with each ne w input. You have successfully learned the order in 

which your  columns become active, meani ng some of the cells in your columns  

become active prior to the arrival of inpu ts  from lowe r regions. What infor m ation 

are you sending to the hierarchically higher regions of  the cortex? We saw earlier 

that your l a yer 2 and layer 3 cells send their axons to the next higher regions. The 

activity of these cells is the  input to the higher regions.  But that's a problem. In 

order for the hierarchy to work, you have to relay a constant pattern during 

learned sequences; y o u have t o pass on the name of a sequence, not the details. 

Before you learn a se quence, yo u can pass on the details, but a f ter you le arn a 

sequence, and are able to s u ccessfully pr ed ict whic h columns  will be active, you 

should  rela y only  a constant patt ern. However, I have not yet shown you a method 

for doing th is. As it currently st ands,  you will pass on every c h anging pattern 

regardless of whether you can  predict it. As each column  becomes active, its layer 

2 and layer 3 cells will send a ne w signal  up the hierarchy. The cortex needs so me 

way to keep the input to the next  region constant d u ri ng learned  sequences. We 

need some way to turn o ff the output of th e layer 2 and layer 3 cells wh en a 

column predicts its activity, or, alternately, to make these cells active when the 
					交替的
column ca n't predict its activity. This is the only way to make a constant name 

pattern.



There is not enough known  about the cortex to state exactly how it does th is. I 

can imagine several methods. I will describe  my current favorite , but keep  in mind 

that the concept is more important than  the specific method.  The creation of a 

constant "name" pattern is a requirement of  this theory . All I can sh ow at this time 

is that plausible mechanisms  exis t for the naming process. 



Again imagine you are a column, as shown i n  f i gu r e 1 0.  We wa n t  t o  u n d er st a n d  

how y o u learn to present a co nsta nt pattern to th e next  higher region when you

can predict your activity, and a changing pattern when you can't predict your 

activity. Let's start by assuming that within layers 2 an d 3 there a r e several classes 

of cells. (In addition to several types of  inhibitor y  cells, many anat omists make th e 

distinction between cell type s in what  they call layers 3a and 3b, so this 

assumption is not unreasonable.) 

103


Let's also assume that one class of cells , called layer 2 cells, learns to stay on 

during learned seque nces. These cells, as a group, represent the name of the 

sequence. They will present a co nstant pattern to higher co rtical regions as long as 

our region can predict  what columns will be   active next. If our region of cortex had 

a learned sequence of three different patt erns, then the layer 2 cells of all the 

columns representing those th ree patterns would stay active as l o ng as we were 

within that sequence. They are the name of the sequenc e. 


Next, let's  assume there is another class  o f  cells, layer 3b cells, which don't fire 

when our co lumn successfully predicts its input but do fi re when it doesn't predict 

its activity. A layer 3b cell represents  an unexpected pattern. It fires when a 

column be comes active unexpectedly. It   will fire every time a  column   becomes 

active prior  to an y learning. But as a column learns to pr edict its activity, the layer 

3b cell becomes quiet. Together, the  la yer 2 and layer 3b cells meet our 

requirement. Before learning bot h  cells fire o n  an d off with  the co l u mn, but af te r  

training the  layer 2  cell  is constant ly active and the layer  3b cell is quiet. 



How do these cells learn to do this? First,  let' s consider how to shut down the layer 

3b cell when its column succ essfully predicts its activity . Say that there is another  

cell positioned just above the layer 3b cell, in layer 3a. This cell also has dendrites  

in layer 1.  Its only job is  to prevent the layer 3b cell from firing when it sees the 

appropriate pattern in layer  1. When the layer 3a cell sees the learned pattern in 

layer 1, it quickly activates an inhibitory  cell that prevents the layer 3b cell from 

firing. This is all it would take to stop the la yer 3b cell fr om firing w h en the column 

correctly predicts its a ctivity. 



Now consider the more diffic ult task of keeping t h e layer 2 cell active throughout a  

known sequence of patterns. This is more difficult because a diverse set of layer 2 
								不同的
cells in many different column s would  need  to stay active together, even when 

their individual columns are not active. Here is how I believe t h is could occur.  

Layer 2 cells could learn to be driven purely from the hierarchically higher regions 

of cortex. They could form synapses preferentially wit h  the axons fr om layer 6 cells 

in the regions above. The layer 2 cells  would therefore represent the constant 

name pattern from the higher  region. When a higher  region of  cortex sends a 

pattern down to layer 1 of the region below, a set of layer 2 cells in the lower 

region would become active , representing all the column s that are members of the 

sequence. Since these layer 2 cells also project back to the higher region, they 

would form a semistable group of cells.  (It is unlikely that these cells stay 

constantly  active. They  proba b ly fire synchronously in something like a rhythm.) It 
					同步的
is as if the higher region sends the name  of a melody t o  layer 1 below. This event 

causes a set of layer 2 cells to fire, one for each of the  columns that will be active 

as the melody is heard. 



104


H ow do we make predictions about events we have never seen before? How do 

we decide among mu lt iple in terpretations  of  an input?  How does a region of  the 

cortex make specific predictions from in variant memories? I gave several examples 

of this earlier, such as predicting the  exact next note in a melody when your  

memory only recalls th e interva l between  the notes, the parabl e of  the tr a in ,  an d  

reciting the Gettysburg Addr ess. In these cases, th e only way to solve this problem 

is to use the last specific  infor m ation to convert an  invari ant prediction into a 

specific prediction. Another way to phrase  this, in terms of the cortex, is to say 

that we have to combine feedforward in formation (actual input) with feedback 

information (a prediction  in an invariant  form). 



Here is a simple example of how I believe  t h i s i s do n e.  Sa y  y o u r  r eg i on of  t h e 

cortex has been told to expe ct the musical interval of a fifth. The  column s of your 

region represent all possible spec ific intervals such as C-E, C-G, D-A, etc. You need 

to deci de which of yo ur colum n s sh ould be active. When the region above tells you 

to expect a fifth, it c a uses layer 2 cells to fire in all the columns that are fifths, 

such as C-G, D-A, and E-B. Cells  in layer 2 of columns  representing other intervals  

are not acti ve. Now you ha ve t o  s elect one  co lum n  from all the possible fift hs. Th e 

inputs to your region are specific notes.  If the last note you heard was a  D, then 

all the columns representing intervals involving a D, s u ch as D-E and D-B, have 

partial input. So now in layer 2 we have activity in all c o lumns tha t  are fifths, and 

in layer 4 we have partial  input to all column s representing intervals involving a D. 

The intersection of these two sets represents our answer, the column representing 

the interval D-A (see figure 11).



How does the cortex find this intersection? R ecall that ea rlier I mentioned th e fact 
				交叉点
that axons from layer 2 and layer 3 cells generally form synapses in layer 5 as they 

leave the cortex, and similarly axons appr oaching la yer 4 from lower regions of  

cortex make a synapse in  layer 6. The intersection  of these two synapses (top 

down an d  bottom up) pro v ides us with what   is neede d. A  layer 6  cell that  receives 

these two active inputs will fire. A layer 6  cell represents what a region of cortex 

believes is happe ning, a specific prediction.  If a layer 6  cell could ta lk, it might say, 

"I am part of a column re presenting something. In my particular case my column 

represents the musical interval D-A. Othe r columns mean other things. I s p eak for 

m y  r eg i o n of  co r t ex .  Wh en  I  beco m e ac tive it means we believe the musical 

interval D-A either is occu rring or will occu r. I might become active because the 

bottom-up input from the ears caused the layer 4 cell in my column to excite the 

entire column. Or my activity might mean that we recogni z ed a melody a n d are 

predicting th is specific  next interval. Ei ther  way, my j ob is to  tell the lower r egions 

of cortex wh at we think is happening. I represent our interpretation of the world, 

regardless of whether it is  true or just imagined." 



Let me de scribe this usin g another mental  picture. Imagine two pieces of paper 

with lots of little holes punched in them. The holes on on e paper represent the 
			
columns that have act i ve layer 2 or layer 3 cells, our invariant pre d iction. The holes 

on the other paper represent columns with partial input fr om below. If you put one 

piece of paper on top of t h e ot her, some  of the holes will line up, others won't. 

The holes that line up  represent the columns  we th ink should be active. 



This mechanism not only makes specific pr edictions, it also resolves ambiguities 

from the sensory inputs. Very often th e  input to a region of cortex will be  

ambiguous, as we saw with the colored papers, or when you  h ear a semi-garbled 

word. T h is  bottom- up/top- dow n  matching mechanism enables you to decide 

between two or more interpretations .   And o n ce yo u decide, you relay your 

interpretation to  the region below. 


Every moment in your waking lif e, each  region of your neocortex is comparing a  

set of expected columns driven from  above with the set of observed columns 

driven from below. Where the two sets intersect is what we perceive. If we had  

perfect input from  below and  perfect pr edictions,  then the set of perceived 

columns w o ul d alway s be conta i ned in  the  set of pr edicted col u mns. We often 

don't have such agreement. The method of combining partial prediction with 

partial input resolves ambiguous input, it fills in missing  pieces of information, and 

it decides  between alternative views. It is how we combine an expected pitch-

invaria n t interval with the last heard note  to predict the next  specific note in a 

melody. It is how we decide whe t her a picture is of a vase or of two faces. It is 

how we split our motor stream either to  write or to speak the Gettysburg Address. 




106


Finally, in addition to projecting to lower cortical regions, layer 6 cells can send 

their output back into layer 4 cells of their own column.  When they do, our 

predictions become the input. This is what we do when daydreamin g or thin king. It 

allows us to see the consequences of our own predictions. We do this many hours  

a day as we plan the future, rehearse sp eeches, and worry abou t events to come.  

Longtime cortical modeler Stephen Grossberg calls this "folded feedback." I  prefer 

"imagining." 


O ne last topic before we leave this section. I  have pointed  out several times that 

most often what we see, hear, or feel is  highly dependent on  our own actions. 

What we see is dependent on where our eyes saccade and  how we turn our 

heads. What we feel is depende n t on ho w we move our limbs and fingers. What 

we hear is sometimes dependen t on wha t  we say and do. 


Therefore, to predict what we will sense ne xt, we have to know what actions we 

are undertaking. Motor behavior and sensory  perception are highly interdependent. 

How can we make predictions if what we  sense next is largely  a result of our own 

actions? F o rtunately, there is a surprising and elegant solution to this problem, 

although ma ny of the details are not understood. 


The first s u rprising discovery is that perception  and be havior are almost one and 

the same. As I mentioned earlier, most if  not all regions of the co rtex, even visual 

areas, participate in the crea tion of mo vement. The lay er  5 cells that project to the 

thalamus and then to layer 1 also seem  to have a motor function because they 

simultaneously project to motor areas of  the old brai n. Thus, t h e knowledge of  

"what just happened" ― both sensory and m o tor― is a vailable  in layer 1. 


The second surprising thing,  and a consequence of the first, is tha t motor  be havior  

must also be represented in a hierarchy of invariant representations. You generate 

the movements necessary to carry out a par t ic ular action by thinking of doing it in 

a detail-invariant form. As the motor command travels down the  hierarchy, i t  gets 

translated into the c o mplex and detail ed sequences required to perform the 

activity you expected to  do. This is ha ppening in  both  "m otor" cortex  and 

"sensory" cortex, whic h blurs the distinction  between the two. If region IT of visual 

cortex is perceiving "nose," the mere ac t  of switching to the representation for  

"eye" will generate the saccade necessary to  make this pre d iction a reality. The 

particular s a ccade necessary to move from seeing a nose to seeing an eye varies 

depending on where the face is. A close  fa ce requires a larger saccade; a more 

distant fac e requires a smaller saccade. A t ilted face requires saccading at an angle 

different fr om the one for a level face.  The details of the needed saccade are 

determined as the prediction of seeing the " eye" moves toward V1. The saccade 

becomes increasingly specific the farther do wn it goes, resulting in a saccade that 

lands  yo ur foveas right on  target, or pretty close. 





107


L et 's l o ok   a t  a n o th er   ex a m p l e.  F o r me t o p h y si ca l ly  mo v e f ro m  my  l iv in g  r o o m  t o  

my kitchen, all my brain ha s to do i s mentally switch from the invariant 

representation of my living  room to the invariant representation of my kitchen. 

This switch causes a complex unfolding of sequences. The process of generating  

the sequence of predictions of w h at I will  see, feel, a n d hear while walking from  

the living r oom to the kitchen also generates the sequence of motor commands 

t h a t  ma k es me wa l k  f r o m  my  l iv in g  r oo m  t o my  k i t ch en  a n d  mo ve my  e y es a s I  d o  

so. Prediction and motor behavior work han d  i n  h a nd  a s p a t t er n s f l o w d o wn a n d  

up the cor t ical hierar chy. As strange as it  sounds ,  when your own behavior is  

involved, your predict i ons not only precede sensation, they determine sensation. 

Thinking of going to the next pattern in  a sequence causes a cascading prediction 

of what you should experience next. As the cascading prediction unfolds, it 

generates the motor commands necessar y   to fulfill the prediction. Thinking, 

predicting,  and doi n g are all part  of t h e  same unfolding of sequences moving down 

the cortical hierarchy. 




"Doing" by thinking, the para llel unfolding of perception and motor behavi or, is the  

essence of what is called goal-oriented beha vior. Goal-oriented behavior is the holy 

grail  of robotics. It is buil t  into the fabric of the cortex. 



We can turn off our motor behavior, of course. I can think of seeing something 

without actually seeing it an d I can think of going to my kitchen without ac tually 

doin g so. B u t t h inki ng of doi n g so mething  is  literally the start of how we do it. 


Flowing up and Flowing Down 


Let's step back a bit and think some more about how inform ation moves up and 

d o wn  the cortical  hierarchy .  A s y o u  mov e  about th e world, ch anging  inputs stream 

into lower regions of the cortex. Each region tries to interpret its  stream of inputs 

as  part of  a  kn own sequence of patterns.  The columns try to anticipate their 
								预期
activity. If they can, they  will pass on a stable pattern, the name of the sequence,  

t o  t h e nex t  hi g h er  r eg i on .  Again i t  i s a s i f  t h e r eg i o n s a y s,  " I  a m  l i st en i ng t o  a  

song, here is the nam e. I  can ha ndle the details."


B u t  wh a t i f a n  u n ex p ect ed  p a t t ern  a r r i v es, a n  u n ex p ected  n ot e?  Or wh a t  i f we s ee  

something that doe s not belong on a face? The unexpected pattern is 

automatically passed to the next higher cortical region.  This happens naturally as  

layer 3b cells that were not part of the  expected sequence fire. The higher region 

may be ab le to understand this new pattern  a s t h e n ex t  p a r t   of its own sequence. 

It might say, "Oh, I see a new note arrived.  Maybe this is the first note of the next 

song on the album. It looks like it, so I  pred ict we have gone on t o  the next song . 

Lower regi on, here is the name of the next  song I th in k yo u shou ld be hea r ing . " 

But if such  recognition  does not occur, an unexpe cted pattern will keep 

propagating up the cortical hierarchy until  some higher region can interpret it as 

part of its normal sequence of events. The higher the unexpected pattern needs to 

go, the more regions of the cortex get involved in resolving  the unexpected input. 

Finally, when a region somewhere up the hierarchy thinks it ca n understa nd t h e 

unexpected event, it generates a  new pred iction. This new prediction pr opa g ates 

d o wn  t h e h i er a r ch y  a s f a r  a s i t  c a n  g o .  I f  t h e n ew p r e d i ct i on  i s n o t  r i g h t,  a n e r r o r  

will be det ected, and again  it  will climb up t h e hierar chy until some region can 

interpret it as part of its currently acti ve sequence. Thus we can see that observed 

patterns flow up the hierarchy and predictions flow down the hierarchy. Ideally, in 

a world that is k n own and predictable, most of t h e up-and-d own flow of patterns 

happe ns rapidly and occurs in the lower  regions of the cortex . The brain quickly 

tries to find a part of   its world m o del that is consistent with any unexpected input.  

Only th en will it  unde rstand its input an d know what  t o  expect next.



If I am walking in a familiar room in m y   house, few errors will propa g ate high up 

my cortex. The highly learned sequences of  my house ca n be handled in the lower 

sections of the visual, somatosensory, an d motor  hie r archy. I know the r oom so 

well I can even walk around in the dark. My familiarity with the surroundings  

effectively frees up most of my cortex for  other tasks such as thinking about brains  

and writing books .  However, if I was in  an unknown room, especially one that was 

different from any I had seen before, not only would I n eed to look to see where I 

was going, but unexp ected patterns would  constantly  be rising fa r up the cortical 

hierarchy. The more my sensory experience doesn't match learne d sequences, the 

more the errors rise u p . In this novel situation, I can no longer think about brains 

because most of my cortex is attending to the proble ms of navigating the room. 

This is a c o mmon experience for people wh o step off an airplane into a foreign 

countr y . W h ile t h e road s may look like thos e you're accu stomed to, cars may whiz  

down the wrong side, the money is strange, the language is incomprehensible, and 

learning how to find  a bathroo m  can take all your cortical powers. Don't try to 

rehearse a speech while walk in g in  a f o reig n land.  


The sensation of su dden comprehension, the "aha!" mome nt, can be underst ood in 
				理解
this model. Imagine you are looking at an  ambiguous picture. Filled with blobs of 

ink and scattered lines, it doe sn't look  like anything. It doesn't make sense. 

Confusio n occurs when the cortex  can't  find any me mory that matches with the

input. Your eyes scan  everywhere on the picture. New inputs race all the way up 

the cortical hierarchy. High -level cortex tries lots of different hypotheses but, as 

these predictions race down the hierarchy, each and every one co nflicts with the 

input and the cortex is forced to try again. Duri ng t h is  time of  co nfusio n yo ur brai n 

is totall y occupied with  understandi n g th e picture. Finally, yo u m a ke a hig h-level 

prediction that is the right  one. When this happens, the prediction starts at the top 

of the cortical hierarchy and succeeds in  propagating all the way to the bottom, 

chunk, chunk, chunk, chunk, chunk. In less than a second, each  region is given a 

sequence that fits the data.  No more errors rise to the top. You understand the 

picture, you see a dalmatian dog amid the dots and scribbles (see figure 12). 

109

Can Feedback Really do That?


We've known for decades that connectio ns in the cortical hierarchy are reciprocal. 
										相互作用的
If regi on A projects to region B, th en B projects to region A. There are often more 

axon fibers going backward than forward.  But even though this description is 

widely accepted, the  prevailing paradigm  is that feedback plays a minor or 

"modulatory" role in t h e brain. The idea  tha t  a feedback signal  could instantly and 
调制的
accurately cause a diverse set of cells in la yer 2 to fire is not the prevailing view 

among neuroscientists. 



Wh y  wo u ld t h i s b e s o? P a r t  o f  t h e r ea so n ,   as  I mentioned before, is that there's no  

real need to  be concerned with f eedback if  yo u d o n't accept the central r o le o f 

prediction. If you think that  the information flows straight t h ro ugh to the mo tor 

system, then why do you need feedback?  Another reason to ig nore feedback is 

that the feedback signal is  spread over large areas of la yer 1. Intuitively,  we would

expect a signal dispersed over a large area would ha ve only a minor effe ct on 

many neurons,  and i ndeed the  brain has sev eral such modulatory signals that don't 

act on specific neurons but change  global attributes suc h  as alertness. 


110


The final reason to ignore feedback is due to how many scientists believe 

individual neurons wor k . Typical neurons have thousands or tens of thousands of 

synapses. Some are located far from the ce ll body, others are right up close to it. 

Synapses close to the cell body have a strong influence on cell firing. A dozen or so  

active synapses near the cell body can cau se it to generate a spike or pulse of 

electrical discharge. This is known. However, the vast majority  of synapses are not 

close to the body of the cell.  They are spread far and wi de out over the branchlike 

structure of a cell's dendrites. Since th ese  synapses are far awa y  from the cell's 
			树突
bod y , scie ntists have tended  to believe th at a spike arriving at one of thos e 

synapses would have a weak or almost imperceptible effe ct on wh ether the neuron 

generates a spike. The effect of a distan t synapse would dissipate by the time it 

reaches the cell body. 



As a gener a l rule , information flowing up  the cortical hierarchy is transferred via 

synapses close to cell bodies. Information going up the hierarchy is therefore more 

certain to pass from region to r egion. Also , as a general rule, feedback fl owing 

down the cortical hierarchy  does so via synapses far from the cell body. Cells in 

layers 2, 3, and 5 send dendrites  into layer 1 and form many synapses there. Layer 

1 is a mass of synapses, but  they are all far from the cell  bodies in layers 2, 3, and 

5. Further m ore, any particular cell in laye r 2, say, will only fo rm a few, if a n y, 

synapses with any  particular feedback fiber.  Therefore,  some scientists may object  

to the idea that a brief pattern in layer 1 could accurately cause a set of cells to 

f i r e i n  l ay er s 2,  3,  an d  5.  Bu t  t h a t  i s precisely  what  the theory I  have laid  out 

requires. 



The resolution to this dilemma is that  neurons behave differently from the way 
			困境
they do in the classic model. In fact,  in recent years there has been a growing 

group of scientists who have proposed that synapses on distant,  thin dendrites can 

play an active and highly sp ecific role in cell firing . In these models, these distant 

synapses behave differently from synapses on thicker dendrites near the cell body. 

For example, if there were two  synapses  very close to each other on a thin 

dendrite , they would act as a "coincidence  detector." That is, if both synapses 

received an input spike with in a small window of time, they could exert a large 
									发挥
effect on the cell even though they are far from the  cell body. Th ey could cau se  

the cell body t o  gene rate a spike. How the dendr i tes of a neuron beha ve is still a  

m y st er y ,  s o  I  c a n no t s a y  mu ch mo r e a bou t  t h em  h er e.  Wh a t  i s i m po r t a n t i s t h a t  

the memory-prediction model of cortex re quires that synapses far from the cell 

body be able to  detect specific patterns. 


In hindsight, it seems almost  foolish to say that most of the thousands of synapses 
	事后认识
o n  a  n eu r on  p l ay  o n ly a  modulatory  r ole. Massive feedback and massive numbers 

of synapse s exist for a reason. Using t h is  in sight, we can say t hat a ty pical neuro n  

has the ab ility  to learn hundreds of precise coincidences on  feedba ck fi bers as they 

make synapses on thin dendrites .  It mean s that each column  in our neocortex is 

highly flexible in terms of which feedback patterns cause it to become active. It 

means that any particular featur e can be precisely associated with thousands of 

different objects and sequences. My mo del requires feedback to be fast and 

precise. Cells need to fire  when they see any number of precise coincidences on 

their distant dendrites. These new  neuron models allow for this. 



111
How the Cortex Learns 


All the cells in all the layers of the cortex have synapses, and most of these 
synapses can be modified via experience. It is safe to say that learning and 
memory oc cur in all la yers, in all  columns ,  i n all regions  of cortex. 



Earlier in the book I me ntio ned Hebbian learni ng,  named aft er the Canadia n 

neuropsy chologist Donald O. Hebb. Its essence is very simple: When two neurons 

fire at the same time, the synapses between  them get strengthened. (It is easily 

summarized in the phrase "Fire together, wi re together .") We now know Hebb was 

basically  right.  Of co urse, nothing in nature is ever quite so  simple, and in real 

brains the details are more complicated. Our nervous systems run many variations 

of Hebb's learning rule; for instance, some synapses change their strength in 

response to small variations in the timing  of neural signals, some synaptic changes 

are short-lived, and s o me changes are long-li v ed. But Hebb wa s erecting only a 

framework for the study of learning, not a final theor y , and that framework has 

been incredibly useful. 



Hebbian learning pri n ciples can explain most of the cortical behavior I have 

mentioned in this chapter. Remember, it was shown back in the 1970s tha t  auto-

associative memories using the classical Hebbian le arning algorithm can learn 

spatial patterns and sequences of patterns. The main problem was that the 

memories couldn 't handle variation well . According to the theo ry  proposed in  t h is  

book, the  cortex has gotten around this  limitation partly by stacking auto-

associative memories in a hierarchy and partly by using a sophisticated columnar  

architecture. This chapter  has been almost all about  the hierarchy and how it 

works, because the hierarchy is what makes the cortex powerful. So instead of  

g o in g through in  painf ul d etail h o w each cell coul d learn this or  that, I want to 

cover a few broad principles of  l earning  i n  a hierarchy.  



When you are born your cortex essentially doesn't know anything. It doesn't  know 

about y o ur  language, yo ur culture, your home, your t o wn, so ngs,  the  peop le you 

will grow up with, not h ing. All this inform at ion, t h e structure of t h e world,  has to  

be learned. The two basic components of learning are forming the classifications of 

patterns and building sequences. These two complementary memory components 

interact. As one region learns sequences, th e inputs it sends to the layer 4 cells in

higher cortical regions change. These layer 4 cells th erefore learn to form new 

classifications, which  changes the pattern  projected back to lay er 1 in the lower 

region, which affects the sequenc es. 





112


The basics of forming sequences is to group patterns together that are part of the 

sa m e o b ject .  On e wa y  t o  d o  t h i s is by  grouping  patterns that  occur contiguously  i n  

time. If a child holds a toy in her hand and slowly moves it, her brain can safely 

assume that the image on her retina is of the same object moment to moment, 

and therefore the changing set of patterns can be grouped t ogether. At  other 

times you need outside instruction to  help you decide which patterns belong 

together. To  learn tha t  apples and bana nas are fruits, but carrots  and celery are 

not, requires a teach er to guide you to  group these items as fruits. Either way, 

your brain slowly builds sequences of patterns that belong together. But as a 

region of c o rtex builds sequences, the inpu t to the next  region c hanges. The input 

changes from representing mostly individual patterns  to representing groups of 

patterns. The input to a region changes from notes to melodies , from letters to 
							旋律
words, from noses to faces,  and so on. Because the bottom-up inputs to a region 

become more "object-oriente d ,"  the higher region of cortex can now learn 

sequences of these higher-order objects. Where before a  region built sequences of 

letters, it now builds sequences of words .   The unexpected result of this learning 

process is that, during repetitive learning, representations of obj ects move down 
			重复的
the cortical hierarchy. During the early years of your life, your memories of the 

world first form in higher regions  of cortex, but as you learn they are re-formed in 

lower and lower parts of the cortical hierarchy. It isn' t that the brain moves them; 

it has  to relearn them over and over. (I am not suggesting that all memories start 

at the top of the cortex. The actual formation of memories is more complex. I 

believe layer 4 pattern classification starts   at the bottom and moves up. But as it 

does, we start forming sequences tha t  t h en  mov e do wn . I t  i s t h e  memory of 

sequences  I am suggesting re- f orm lower and lower in the cortex.) As simple 

representations move down, the regions at  the top are able to learn more complex 

and su bt le patterns.


You can  observe the creation and downward movement of  hierarchical memory by 

observing how a child learns. C o nsider how we learn to read. The first thing we  

learn is to recognize  individual  printed letters. This  is a slow and diffic ult task 

requiring conscious effort. Then we move on  to recognizing simple words. Again, it 

i s d i ff i cu l t and  s l o w a t  f i r st ,  e v en  f o r   three-letter words. The  child can read each 

letter in se quence and sound out the letter s one after  another,  but it takes a fair 

amount of practice before the word itself is recognize d  as a word. After learning 

simple words, we struggle with c o mplex, multisyllable words. At  fi rst, we sound out 

each syllable, concatenating them as we did with letters when learning simple 

words. After years of practice, a person  ca n read quickly. We get to the point 

where we don't actually see all the individual letters bu t instead recognize entire 

words and often entire phrases at a glance. It isn't just that we are faster; we are

actually recognizing w o rds and  phrases as entities. When we read  an entire word 

at one time, do we still see the letters? Yes and no. Obviously, the retina sees the 

letters and therefore so do  regions of V1. But the reco gnit ion of t h e letters is 

occurring fairly low in  the cortical hierarchy, say in V2  or V4. By the time the signal 

gets to IT, the individual letters are no longer represente d. What at first took the 

effort of your entire visual cortex― reco gniz ing individual letters― is now occurrin g 

closer to the sensory input. As memory of simple objects like letters moves down 

the hierarchy, th e higher regions have  the ability to learn complex objects like 

words and phrases.


113



Learning to read music is another example. At first you have to concentrate on 

every note . With practice, you start to  recognize common note sequences, then 

entire phrases. After much practice, it is  as if you don't see most of the notes at 

all.  The sheet music  is there only to re mind you of the major  structure of the 

piece; the  detailed sequences have been memorize d lo wer down. Th is t y pe of 

learning occurs in bot h  motor and sensory areas. 



A young brain is slow er to recognize inputs  and slower  to make motor commands 

because the memories used in these tasks are higher up the co rtical hierarchy. 

Information has to flow all the way up  and down, maybe with  multiple passes, to 

resolve conflicts. It takes ti me for the neural signals to  travel up and down the 

cortical hie r archy. A young brain also has not yet for m ed  complex sequences at 

the top and therefore cannot reco gnize an d  play back comple x patterns. A young 

brain ca nnot underst a nd t h e hi gher-ord er structure of the world. Compared to an 

adult's, a c h ild's language is simple, his mu sic is simple, and his social interactions  

are simple. 


If you study a particular set of objects over and over, your cortex r e-forms  

memory representations for those objects down the hierarchy. This frees up the 

top for learning more subtle, mor e comple x relations h ips. According to the theory, 

this is  what makes an expert. 





In  my work design in g computers, some people are surp rised by how quickly I can 

look at a product and see the problems inherent in its design. After twenty-five 

years of designing computers, I have a  better-than-average mo del of the issues 

associated with mobile computing devices.  Similarly,  an  experienced parent can 

easily recognize why his child is  upset, wh ereas a first-time parent may struggle 

with how to handle a situation. An experienced business manager can rea d ily see 

the flaws and advantages of the structure  of an organization whereas the novice 

manager just can't understand these things . They have the sa me input, but the 

novice's m o del is not as sophisticated. In all such cases and a thousand more, we 

start by learning the basics, the simplest structure. Over time we move our 

knowledge down the cortical hierarchy and, therefore, we  have the opportunity at  

the top for learning higher-order structure. It is this higher-order structure that 

makes us experienced. Experts and geni uses have brains that see structure of 

structure and patterns of patterns beyond  wh at others do. You can become expert 

by practice, but t h ere certainly is a genetic  component t o  tale nt a nd ge nius  too. 



114

The Hippocampus: on Top of it All  
	海马


Three large brain structures lie under the neocortical sheet and communicate with 

it. They are the basal   ganglia, the cerebellum, and th e hippocampus. All three 
		基本的  神经中枢	小脑
existed prior to the neocortex. With a very  broad brush, we can say that the basal 

ganglia were the primitive motor system , the cerebellum learned precise timing 

relations hips of events, and the hippocampus stored memories of specific events 

and places. To some extent, the neocortex  has subsumed their original functions. 
						归入
For example, a human born  with out much of a cerebellum will have deficits in 
									不足
timing and will have to apply mo re conscious effort when mo ving but otherwise 

will be  pretty normal. 



We know that the neocortex is responsible for all complex motor sequences and 

can directly control yo ur lim bs. It isn't that the basal ganglia are unimporta nt, jus t 

that the ne ocortex ha s taken  over a large part of motor control. Because of this, I 

have described the overall function of  the neocortex independently of the basal 

ganglia and the cerebellum.  Some scientis ts may disagree with this assumption, 

but it is one I have used in  t h is book and i n  my work.



The hippocampus, however, is a different beast. It is  one of the most heavily 

studied areas in the brain because it  is essential to the formation of new 

memories. If you lose both halves of the  hippocampus (like many parts of the 

nervous system, it exists in  both the left  and the right sides of the brain), you  lose 

the ability t o  form  most  new memories. Wi thout the hippocampus  you can still talk, 

walk, see, and hear, and for brief periods of  time appear almost normal. But in fact 

you are profoundly impaired: you can't remember anything new. You can 

remember a friend you knew be fore you lo st the hip po campus, but y o u cannot  

remember  a new person. Even  if you met wi th your doctor fi ve times a day for a 

y ea r ,  e a ch  t i m e wo u ld b e l ik e t h e f i r st  t i m e.  Y o u  wo ul d h a v e n o  mem o r y  o f  e v en t s 

that occurred after the loss of your hippocampus. 




For many years I hated to think about the hippocam pus because it di dn't make 

sense to me. It clearly is essential for learni ng, yet it isn't the ultimate repository 

for most of  what we know. Th e neocortex  is. The classic view of the hippocampus  

is that new memories are formed  there, and later, over a  period of days, weeks, or 

months, these new memories are transferred to the neocortex. This made no 

sense to m e. We know that sights, sound,  touch― our sensory data stream ― flow 

directly into the sensory areas of the  cortex without first passing thr o ugh the 

hippocampus. It seemed to me that this  sensory information should automatically 

form new memories in the cortex. Why do  we need a hippocampus to learn? How 

could a separate structure such as the hi ppocampus interfere and prevent learning 

in t h e cortex , only later  to transfer  the inform at ion back  to the cortex? 


115


I decided  to put t h e hippocampus aside,  figur i ng t h at some day its rol e would 

become clear. That day happen ed in late 2002, right around  the time I began  

writing t h is  book. One of my colleagues  at the Redwood Neuroscience Institute, 

Bruno Olshausen, pointed out that the connections between th e hi ppocampu s an d 

the neoc ortex sugges t  that the hippocampus is the top  region o f  the neocortex,  

not a separate structure. In this view, the hippocampus occupies the peak of the 

neocortical pyramid, the top block in figure 5. The  neocortex appeared on th e 

evolutionary scene sandwiched between  the hippocampus and the rest of the 

b r a i n.  Apparently  t h i s v i ew o f  t he h i pp o cam pus as being at t h e top of t h e cortical 

hierarchy was known for some time; I was  just not aware of it. I had spoken to 

several hippocampus experts and asked them to explain how this seahorse-shaped 

structure could transfer memories to th e cortex. No one co uld. A n d no one 

mentioned that th e hi ppocamp us was at the  top of the cortical  pyramid, probably 

because the hippocampus not only sits at th e top of the cortical pyramid, but  it still 

connects di rectly to m a ny older parts of the brain. 


Yet I instantly saw this new perspective as the solution to my confusion. 
				观点

Think about information flowing from your eyes, ears, and  skin into the ne ocortex. 

Each region of the neocortex tries to  understand what this information means. 

Each region tries to understa nd the input in terms of the sequences it knows. If it 

does understand the input, it says, "I understand this, it is just part of the object I 

am already seeing. I won't pass on the details ." If a region doesn't understand the 

current input, it passes it up the hierarchy  until some higher region does. However, 

a pattern t h at is truly novel will escalate  further and further up the  hierarchy. Each 

successively higher region says, "I don't know what this  is, I didn't anticipate it, 

why don't you hig h er -ups l ook at  it?" The net effect is that when you get to the 

top of t h e cortical pyramid, what you have left is information that can't be 

understood by previous experience. You are left with the part of the input that is  

truly  new and unexpected. 



In a t y pica l day  we encounter many new  things that make it to the top― for 

example, a story in the newspaper, the na me of th e person y o u met this morning, 

and the car accident you saw on the way home. It is these unexplained and 

unanticipat ed remainders, the new stuff, that ente r the hippocampus a n d are 

stored ther e. This information won't be stor ed forever. Either it  will be transferred 

down int o  t h e cortex below or  it will eventually be lost. 



I ha ve noticed that , as I get  older, I  h a ve trouble remembering n ew thin gs. For 

example, my children remember the details of most of the theatrical play s they  

have seen in the last year. I can't. Perhaps it is because I have seen so many plays 

in my life that rarely do I see a n ything tr uly new. New plays fit into memories of 

past plays, and the information just doesn't ma k e i t  t o  my  h i p po ca m p u s.  F o r my  

children, each play is more novel and does reach the hippocampus. If this  is true, 

we could say the more you know, the less you remember. 

116


Unlike the neocortex, the hippocampus has a heterogeneous structure with several
						混杂的
specialized regions. It's good at the unique task of quickly storing w h atever

patterns it sees. The hippocampus is in th e perfect position, at the top of the

cortical pyramid, to remember what is novel. It is  also in th e perfect position to

recall these novel memories, allowing them to  be stored in the cortical hierarchy,

which is a somewhat slow process. You can instantly remember a novel event in

the hippoc ampus, but you will permanently remember something in t h e cortex

only  i f  you experience it over and over, either in realit y or by thinking of it. 


An Alternate Path up the Hierarchy
	交替的


Your cortex has a second major  pathway for passing information from region to 

region, up the hierar chy. This alternate path starts with cells in layer 5, which 

project to the thalamus (a different part  of the thalamus from the one we 

discussed earlier) and then  from the thalamus up to the next higher region of  

cortex. Whenever two regions of cortex  directly connect to each other in a 

hierarchical fashion, they also connect indirectly through the thalamus. This second  

pathway passes information only  up the hierarchy, not do wn. So as we move u p  

the cortical hierarchy, there is a direct  path  between two regio n s and an indirect 

path thro ugh the thalamus. 



The second path has two modes of operation determined by cells in the t h alam us. 

In one mode, the path is mostly shut down so informat ion d o es not flow thr o ugh.  

In the other mode, information flows accurately between regions. Two scientists,  

Murray Sherman of the State University  of  New York at Stony Brook and Ray 

Guillery of the Univer sity of Wisconsin School of Medicine, have described this 

alternate pathway and postulated that it  mi ght be as  important as the direct one  

(perhaps more so), which has been the subject of this chapter so far. I have a 

speculation of what this  second path way is doing. 


Read this word:  imagination.  Most people can recognize the word in a single 

glance, one fixation. Now look at the letter i  in the middle of the word. Now look at  

the dot over  that  i.  Your eyes can be fixated on the  exact same location, but in one  

case you see the wor d , in the next case y o u see the letter, and in the final case 

you see the dot. Stare at the  i and try to alternate your  perception between the 

word, the letter, and t h e do t.  I f  you  have t r o u b l e,  t r y  sa y i ng " d o t , " " i , " an d 

"imagination" while you stare at the dot. In all cases the exact  sa me information is 

entering V 1, yet by the time it gets to  so me higher region like IT yo u perceive 

different things, dif f erent levels of detail . Region IT knows how  to recogniz e all 

three objects. It can recognize  the dot in isolation, the letter i , and the entire word 
						隔离
at a glanc e. But w h en you perceive the  entire word, V4, V2, and V1 handle the 

details, and all IT gets to know about  is  the word. You normally  don't perceive  the  

individual letters while reading; you perceive words or phrases. But you can 

perceive the letters if you choose to. We are doing this sort of attentional shift a ll 

the time, but we aren't generally  aware of it. I can be listening t o  music playing in  

the background and barely be aware of th e melody, but if I try, I can isolate the 
									使隔离
singer or the bass guitar. The same sound is entering my head, bu t I can foc u s my 

perceptions.  Every time you scratch your  head, the movement makes a loud 
				抓伤
internal sound , b u t usually you are unaware of the noise. If you fo cus on it,  

though, yo u can hear  the sound  clearly.  Th is is another example of sensory input  

that norma lly is handled low in the cortic al hierarchy but can be brought t o  higher 

levels if you attend to it. 


I speculate  that the alternate pathway through the thalamus is the mechanism by  
	推测
which we attend to details that  normally we wouldn't notice. It bypass es the 

grouping of  sequence s in layer 2, sending th e raw data  to the  next hig h er r egion 

of cortex. Biologists have shown that t h e alternate pathway can be tur n ed on in  

one of two ways. One is by a signal from the higher region of the c o rtex itself.  This 

is the method you us ed when  I asked you to attend to details that normally you 

wouldn't notice, such as the dot on the  i  or the sound of a head scratch. The 

second method that can activate  this pathwa y is a large, unexpected signal from 

below. If the input to the alternate pathway is strong enough, it sends a wake-up 

signal to the higher region, which again ca n turn on the pathway. For example, if I 

showed you a face an d asked you what it was, you would say "Face." If I showed  

you  the s a me face but it  ha d a strange mark o n the nose, you woul d first 

recognize the face, but then immediately your lo wer levels of vi sion wo uld notice 

that something is wrong. This error forces the opening of the  atte ntio nal path way. 

The details  will now take the alternate path , bypassing the grouping that normally  

occurs, and your atte ntion will be drawn to the mark. You now see the mark and 

not ju st the face. If it was sufficiently  odd, the mark could  occupy yo ur e n tire  

attention. In  this way , unus ual ev ents quickl y rise to your attention. T h is is w h y we 

can't avoid focusing on deformities and other unusual patterns. Your brain does 

this automatically. Often, however, errors aren't strong enough to open the 

alternate pathway. This is why we sometimes don't notice if a word is misspelled 

as we read it. 


Closing Thoughts 


To find and establish a new scientific fram ework, it is necessary to look for the 

simplest concepts capable of uniting and  explaining what were large quantities of 

disparate facts. It is an unavoidable consequence of this process that the 

pendulum  swings too far towar d  simplification. Important deta ils  are likely  to be 

ignored, and facts will be misinterpreted. If th e framework takes hold, refinements 

and fixes will inevitably be found showing  where the initial proposal went too far, 

didn't go far enough, or was in e rror. 



I n  t h i s c h ap t er ,  I  h ave i n t r od u ced  many speculative ideas on how the neocortex 

works. I expect that several of these ideas will prove to be wrong, and probably all  

of these ideas will be revised. There are also many details  I haven't even 

mentioned.  The brain is very complex; neuroscientists reading t his book will know 

that I have presented a crude characterization  of the complexities of the real brain. 
			粗糙    描述
Yet I believe the framework as  a whole to be sound. All I  can hope is that t he core 

ideas will be preserved as the details change in the face of new data and 

understanding. 



118

Finally, you may be struggling with the idea that a simple but large memory 

system could actually  result in all that  humans do . Co ul d yo u an d  I really be  just a 

hierarchical memory system? Could our lives, beliefs, and ambitions be stored in 

trillions of tiny synapses?  In 1984, I started writing computer pr ograms 

professionally. I had written  small programs before but  this was my first time 

programm in g a comp uter with a graphical user interface, and my first time 

working on  large and sophisticated appl ic ations . I was writing software for an 

operating system created by Grid Systems. With windows, m ultiple fonts ,  and 

menus, the  Grid opera t in g system was quite advanced for its  time. 



One day I was struck by the near impossibility of  what I  was doing.  As a 

programmer, I wrote one line of code at a ti me. I grouped lines of  code i n to blocks  

called subroutines. Subroutines were  grouped i n to  modules.  Modules were 

combine d  t o  form an  application. The  spreadsheet program I was working on had 

so many subroutines and modules that no one person co uld understand the entire  

thing. It was complex. Yet a single line of  c o d e wo u l d d o  v er y  l i tt l e.  T o  p l a ce o n e 

pixel on the display took several lines of  co de. To draw an entire screen for the 

spreadsheet required the computer to execute millions of instructions th at  were 

spread over hundreds of subroutines.  Subrouti nes invoked other subroutines in 

repetitive and recursive ways. It was so  complicated that it w a sn't possible to 

know everything that would  happen when the program ran.  I t struck  me a s h i gh ly 

improbable  that when the program did run it would draw its image in what seemed  

like an instant. Its outward appearance was tables o f  numbers,  l a bels, text, and 

graphs. It behaved like a spreadsheet. But  I knew what was going on inside the 

computer with the processor  executing one simple instruction at a time. It was  

hard to believe that the co mputer could find its way through the maze of modules 

and s u broutines and execute all those instructions  so quickl y. If  I hadn't known 

better, I would have been certain the whole thing couldn't work. I realized that if 

someone had invented the c o ncept of a computer with a graphical user interface 

and a s preadsheet application, and presented it to me  on paper, I would have 

rejected it as impractical. I would have said it would take forever to do anything. It 

was a humbling thought because it did work. It w a s then that I realized my 

intuitive sense for the speed of the microprocessor and my intuitive sense for the 

power of hierarchical design were inadequate. 


There is a lesson here about the neocortex. It isn't made of superfast components 

and the rules under which it operates are no t  t h a t  c o m p l ex .  Ho wev er ,  i t  d o es h a v e 

a hierarchical structure that contains billions of neurons and trillio ns of synapses. If 

we find it hard to imagine how such a logically simple but numerically vast m emory 

system can create our consciousness, our languages, our cultures, our art, this 

boo k , an d our science and technolo gy, I suggest it is because our intuitive sense of 

the capacity of the cortex and the power of  its hierarchical structure is inadequate. 

The neocortex does work. It isn't magi c. We can understand  it. A n d li ke a 

computer,  ultimately  we can build  intellige n t machines that  work on the same 

principles


















