120
Everythi ng I have written so far about  the neocortex and how it works depends on  

a very basic premise！ that the world has structure and is therefore predictable. 
		念戻
There are patterns in the world: faces have  eyes, eyes have pupils, fires are hot, 

gravity makes objects fall, doors open and shut, and  so forth. The world is not 

random, nor is it homogeneous. Memory, prediction, and behavior  woul d be 

meaningless if the wo rld was  without structure. All behavior, whether it is the 

behavior of a human, a snail, a single-c ell organism, or a tree, is a mea n s of 

exploiting the structure  of the world for th e benefit  of reproduction. 



Imagine a one-cell animal living in a pond . The cell has a flagellum that le ts it 

swim. On the surfac e of the cell are molecules that detect the presence of 

nutrients. Si nce not all areas of the pond have the same concentration of nutr ients, 

there is a gradual change in value, or gradient, of nutrients from one side of the 

cell to the other. As it  swim s acro ss the pond, the cell can detect the shift .  This is a 

simple form of structure in the world of the one-cell animal. The cell exploits its  

chemical awareness by swimming toward places with higher concentrations of 

nutrie n ts. We could say that th is simple  organism is making a prediction. It is 

predicting th at by swimming in a certain way it will find more nutrients. Is there 

memory involved  in t h is prediction? Yes,  there is. The memory is in the DNA of the 

organism. The one-cell animal did not lea r n,  in its lifetime, how to exploit this 

gradient . Rather, the learning occurred over  evolutionary time and is stored in the 

animal's DNA. If the structure of the worl d changed sudde nly,  this particul ar  one-

cell animal could not learn to adapt. It  could not alt er its DNA or the resulti n g 

behavi or. For this spe cies, learni ng can occ u r on ly  thr o ugh ev olutionar y  processes 

over ma ny generations. 

121

Is this one-cell organism intelligent?  Using the everyday notion of human 

intelligence, the answer is no. But the  animal does lie at t h e far edge of a 

continuum of species that use memory and predictio n  to reproduce more 

successfully, and by that more academic measure the answer is yes. The point is 

not to labe l some spe cies as inte llige n t an d others as not intellige nt. Mem o ry and 

prediction are used by all  living things. The r e is just  a con t in uum of  meth ods and  

sophisti cation in how t h ey do it.


Plants also use memory and  prediction to exploit the st ructure of  the world. A tree 

makes a prediction when it sends  its root s down into the soil and its branches and 

leaves up toward the sky. The tree is predicting where it will find water and 

minerals based on the experience of its ancestors. Of course a t r ee doesn't think; 

its behavior is automatic. But the species is  exploiting the structure of the world in 

the same way as the one-cell  organism. Every plant spec ies has a distinct set of 

behavi ors th at exploit slig htly different parts of th e structure of the world. 




Eventually, plants evolved communication systems, based mostly on the slow 

release of chemical signals.  If an insect damages part of a tree, the tree sends 

chemicals through its vascular system to  other parts of the tree,  which triggers a 

defense system, such as making toxins . T hrough such a communicatio n sy stem, 

the tree can exhibit slightly more complex  behavi or. Neurons proba b ly e v ol ved as a 

way to communicate inf o rmation more qui ckly t h an a  plant's vascular system. You 

could th ink  of a neuron as just a cell with its own vascular appendages. At some 

point, instead of slowly moving chemicals along these appendages, the neuron 

started using electroc hemical spikes, which travel much faster. In the beginning, 

fast synaptic transmis sion and simple  nervous systems probably  did not in volve 

much if any learning. The  name of the game was simply faster signaling. 


But then, in the march of evolutionary  time, something really interesting 
happe ned.   Connecti o ns between neuron s be came modi fiable . A  neuron could  send 
a signal or  not send a signal , depending  on  what had happened re cently. Behavior 
could now be modi fied  withi n  the life of  an organism. The nervous system became  
plastic, and so  did behavior. Because  memories could be rapidly formed, the 
animal could learn the structure of its wo rld during its own li fetime. If the world 
suddenly c h anged！ say, a new predator arrived on the scene！  t h e animal didn't 
have to stick with its  genetically determ ined behav i or , which migh t no longer be 
appropriate. Plastic nervous  systems  became a tremendous evolutionary 
advantage and led to a burst of new species from fish  to snails t o humans. 


A s we s a w  i n c h a p t er 3 ,  a ll  mammals h a ve a n  o l d b ra i n , o n  t o p o f wh i ch s i t s t he 
neocortex. The neocortex is just the most recent neural tissue to evolve. But with 
its hierarchical structure, invariant represen tations ,  and prediction by analogy, the 
cortex allows mammals to exploit much more of the structure of the world than an 
animal without a neocortex  can. Our  cortic ally en dowed ancestors could envision 
how to ma ke a net and catch fish. The fish  are not able to learn that nets mean
death or t o  fi gure o ut how to  build to ols  to cut nets. All mammals, from ra ts to 
cats to humans, have  a neocorte x. They are all intelligent, but t o  differing degrees. 
122

Wh at's Different about Human Intelligence?

The memory-prediction framework offers two  answers to this question. The first is 
pretty straightforward: our neocortex is larger than, say, a monkey's or a dog's. By 
enlarging the cortical sheet  to the size of a large dinner napkin, our brains can 
learn a more complex  model of the world an d make mo re comple x prediction s. We 
see deeper analogies, more structure on st ructure, than other mammals. If we 
want to find a mate we don't just look  at simple attributes such as health, we 
interview t h eir friends and parents, we  observe how they drive and speak, and 
judge how honest they are. We look at these secondary and tertiary attributes to 
try to pre d ict how our potentia l mate w ill behave  in the futu re. Stock marke t 
traders look for structure in trading pattern s. Mathematicians look for structure in 
numbers and equations. Astronomers look  for structure in  the motions of the 
planets and the stars. Our  larger neocortex  allows us to see our home as part of a 
town, which is part  of a region, which is part of a planet, which is part of a large 
universe！ structure within structure.  No other mammal can ruminate to th is 
depth. I am  pretty  certain m y  cat has no  concept of a world  outside our house.


The second difference between  the intelligence of humans and  other mammals is 
that we have languag e. Entire books ha ve been written on th e supposedly unique 
properties  of language and how it developed. However, lang uage fits nicely into  
the memor y -prediction framework without a ny special language sauce or dedicated  
lang uage machinery. Spoken and written wo rds are  just patterns in the world, as 
are melodies, cars, a n d houses. The synt ax and semantics of language are not 
different from the hierarchical structure of  other everyday objects. And in the same 
way that we associate the sound of a train with the  visual memory image of a 
train, we associate spoken words with our memo ry of their  physical and semantic 
counterparts. Through lang uage one human can invoke memories and create new 
juxtaposit io ns of ment al objects in anot her human . La nguage is pure anal og y, a n d 
through it  we can cause other human s to   experience and learn about things they 
may never actually see. The development of language required a large neocortex 
capable of handling the nested st ructure of  syntax and semantics. It also require d 
a more fully developed motor cortex and musculature to enable us to make 
sophisticated, highly articulate sounds  or gestures. W i th language, we can take 
patterns that we learn in a lifetime and transm it them t o  our childr en and our tribe. 
Language, whether it be writt en, spoke n , or embodied in cultura l  tra d itions, 
became the means by which we pass on  what we k n ow about the world from  
generation to generation. Today,  printe d and electronic communications allow us 
to share our knowledge with millions  of  people around the world. A n imals without  
lang uage do n't trans m it nearly as much informati o n to  their offs pring. A rat can 
learn many patterns in its lifetime, but  it doesn't pass on detailed new
info rmatio n！ "Hey junior, here's how my father ta ught me to avoi d el ectric 
shocks." 


Thus, intelligence could be traced over three epochs, each using memory and 
prediction. The first would be when species  used DNA  as the med i um for memory. 
In dividuals coul d not learn  and adapt within their lifetimes. They could only pass 
on the DNA-based me mory of the world to their offspr ing through their  gene s. 

The second epoch began when nature invented modifiable nervous systems that 
cou l d quickly form memories. An individu al  could  now learn about the stru cture of  
its world and ada p t its behavior accordingly  within its lifetime. But  an individual still 
could not communicate this knowledge to its o ffspring other  than by direct 
observation. The creation and expansion of the neocortex occurred within this 
second epoch, but  did not defi ne i t .

The thir d and fi nal epoch is unique t o  humans. It begins with the invention of  
lang uage an d the expa nsion of  o u r large neocortex. We humans can learn a lot of 
the structure of the world wi th in  o u r lif etimes,  an d we can effectively communicate 
this to many other humans via language. You and I are participating in this 
process right now. I have spen t a large part of my life  searching for the structure 
in brains  a n d how t hat structur e leads to  thought a nd intelligence. Through th is 
boo k  I am  spreading  what I hav e learned to yo u. Of c o urse I couldn 't have done  
this if I ha dn't had access to the knowle dge gathered by hundreds of scientists, 
who learned from others, and so on down through the ages. I was able to 
assimilate and add to what others have  written about their  own thinking an d 
observation. 

We have become the most adaptable creatures on the planet  and the only ones 
with the ability to transfer our knowledge of the world broadly within our populace . 
The human popu lati on has under gone explosive growth  because we can learn and 
exploit so much of the stru cture of th e worl d and com m unicate it to other humans. 
We can thrive anywhere, be it a rain forest, a desert, the fr ozen tundra, or the 
concrete jungle. The c o mbin atio n of a larg e neocortex and language has led to the 
spiraling success of our species. 

What is Cr eativity?










